Good morning r/fitness.

I am 30M, 132lbs, 5'7", hoping to return to exercise. Due to the distance between my home and gym locations, my only real option for dedicated workout space is
the"gym" [provided by my apartment complex](http://imgur.com/a/LyK3cCr). It's not much, as you can see. I'm really only familiar with stronglifts/nSuns which I've
had success with years ago before I made the unwise decision to let exercise go in favor of other hobbies. I can't do powerlifts here because there's no bench,
rack, etc. I honestly don't even know what the pictured machines do.

Do you have suggestions for what I can do that's similar to nSuns in this space? I have good resistance bands myself and could invest in a set of locking dumbbells
if it would help. Just looking for alternatives given the tools I have available!
Im switching over to a gym with free weights and racks instead of smith machines soon- any tips for maintaining proper form and not making a complete fool of
myself? (Besides lowering the weight)
How often do you guys skip workouts? It's really rare for me to do so, like usually once every two months, but I skipped yesterday because I was exhausted from
not getting to bed until 3am, and I had so much to do that day that there was only about an hour or two of free time, and I was trying to will myself into the gym in
that hour but I just couldn't muster the willpower, and I feel crappy about it
How do I start??

Hey guys 18M freshman college student here. I’ve never like seriously worked out in my life so I need some advice about how to start. I’m about 6’1 (185.5 cm) and
weigh 148 lbs (67 kg). Yeah I’m pretty skinny and I have pretty small arms and stuff. I cannot do push-ups no kidding. Any recommendations?
Is there any consensus on the best program for a beginner with a long term goal towards aesthetics?
Has anyone here with flat feet ever had any success with arch strengthening exercises? I've come across a few blogs about it, but it seems at first glance to be a bit
of a grift in many cases. I'd be happy to be proved wrong though.
Hi everyone, how much HIIT is too much assuming I also strength train in the gym?
Some say three times a week is good, some say only once per week…
Through out my childhood I wasn't that athletic at all or even attempted to exercise but recently I've started running because I'm tired of sweating and feeling
fatigued after walking to a local liquor store. So far, I've started to feel better and my legs lighter than ever but two nights ago when I took a break due to the smoke
from the recent california fire, I felt a deep leg pain, not agonizing pain but about a level 5 out of 10 pain. Is this normal? Up till that point, I have not taken a day off.

Edit: I'm in my early 20's.
Hey guys, quick question, im doing fullbody 3x per week, my main goal is to build muscle. I want to be healthy, active so i want to do cardio. I want to do running,
because its most enjoyable for me, its easy, i can do it everywhere, everytime. My question is , how much of steady state running is safe to do per week without
hindering muscle growth ? Should i stick with 3x 30 minutes, or i will be safe even with 3x 1 hour of steady state ? Ty
I just started going to college earlier this fall and I'm finding it hard to keep consistent with my usual program. I have been wondering if doing a PPL split 6 days a
week but only like 20-30 minutes each day would be okay since I'm struggling with time.
Here is my idea:

Push Day 1
Bench Press 531
OHP 5x10
Tricep Isolation 5x8-15

Pull Day 1
Pendlay Row 531
Pullups 5x10
Curl Variation 5x8-15

Leg Day 1
Squats 531
RDL 5x10
Leg Raises/Ab Rollouts/ L-Sit training 5x

Push Day 2
OHP 531
Bench Press 5x10
Tricep Isolation 5x8-15

Pull Day 2
Weighted Pullups 5x5
Pendlay Row 5x10
Curl variation 5x8-15

Leg Day 2
Front Squats 5x10
RDL 5x10
Abs/Core

I'm wondering if this split would allow be to build muscle or at least maintain my mass while I'm going through college and don't have much time to workout.
Please let me know your thoughts and if this looks okay and balanced. Every workout here would take roughly 20-30 minutes.
I hit 2x legs a week in the gym but does it matter which days I go? Like would it make a difference going Thursday and Saturday instead of Tuesday and Saturday?
This is my current routine, developed over time by adapting someone else's according to personal preference and available equipment (Dumbbells, a pullup bar
that's a bit too narrow and chairs)



Chest, triceps and back



Dumbbell rows - 10 rep, 4 set



Pullups - 3 rep, 3 set



"Pushup cycle" - 3 (5 regular, 5 diamond and 5 incline)



Tricep extensions - 10 rep, 4 set




Biceps and legs



Bicep Curls - 10 rep, 3 set



Hammer curls - 10 rep, 3 set



Wrist curls - 10 rep, 3 set



Squats - 25 rep, 3 set



Lunges - 10 rep, 3 set




Abs and shoulders



Shrugs - 10 rep, 4 set



Shoulder press - 10 rep, 4 set



Front raises - 10 rep, 4 set



Dumbbell High rows - 10 rep, 4 set



Situps - 14 rep, 3 set



Cross body mountain climbers - 14 rep, 3 set



Plank - 1 min



It's probably really bad, so I'm curious as to what more experienced people think of.
Doing 531 BBB. On my second cycle, should I do the deload week? I've been feeling great and dont really think I need a whole week for extra recovery but I'm not
sure if there's something I'm missing.
I do GZCLP.

Is it better to workout 4 times a week even if means two workout days might be in a row? Sometimes my schedule doesn’t allow for a perfect every second day
routine.

Also, what is your opinion on accessory work on rest days? GZCLP doesn’t really have any biceps/triceps/abs isolation so I figured I’d do it on rest days when I get
the time
Any HIT workouts that people could recommend? Think insanity but open to other options.
How long do you need to bulk? I already being doing bulking 4 months and I already feel big. I’m just thinking when it’s the best time to do a cut?
If you have the mobility for a deep ATG squat, should you continue doing them or just go slightly below parallel? I tried doing them with less depth then I usually do,
it I found it a bit harder because I couldn’t utilize dat dere stretch reflex
Should I keep bulking? I originally planned to bulk until next year, but I’m also looking kinda fat. Should I keep going?

I’m 5’9” and 160lbs. [Body Pic](https://i.imgur.com/YYi97yD.jpg)
Getting my wisdom tooth taken out today. How long until I can start lifting again? 1 day? 3 days?
I've been working out the past 5 weeks 4 days a week. I've been seeing great progress! What sucks is now I sprained my wrist and I have to wear a wrist brace.
What is the best way I can still workout? Or should I take a week off?
How do I increase my appetite?

I can usually get 1800-2000 kcal's for a few days then after the few days I have no appetite. It gets to a point where I could eat less than 1000 kcal's and be full for
the day. My average macro ratio is about 80-110|50-70|180-280|40-50 (P|F|C|sugars) carbs includes sugar.

This is making it really hard to bulk and increase strength as a beginner. My main goal is strength.

Edit: am 5'7, 57kg male
How do I progress single arm dumbbell rows? They are one of my favorite exercises for back, but I've maxed out the dumbbells at my gym and some gyms I go to
don't even go as high as my regular. Any tips?
[removed]
how many reps is too much for lat raises? im up to 26 with my current weight, but i dont have small enough increments so going up would drop me down to like 15-
18 reps i guess. Ive read that lat raises need a lot of reps anyways, so how far can i push it?
Is it normal that I feel wrecked post workout? I am doing 5/3/1 PPL I did legs yesterday( squats 3x5 and FSL 5x5 + rest of leg) and pull today ( deadlift 3x5 FSL
5x5+ rest of pull) and I feel absolutely wrecked. Is it gonna get better once my body get used to the workouts and volume, or is this going to be a common
occurence?
Hello, İ've currently been doing a 3 day full body workout programme for 3 months. İn these past 3 months, İ've gained 7kg (going from 78kg to 85kg). İ'm also 6
foot 6 in height. İs that an alright rate of weight gain or am İ eating at too much of a surplus?
I weigh approx 150lbs and can only deadlift 30kgs (approx 65lbs) as a woman, and that's having worked up to that. It seems laughably low, does anyone know if
this is normal or if I'm some subhuman specimen?
Does cardio help with making my thighs,legs and butt, smaller? They’re all pretty big and I’m not a fan of it, I’m a guy and weigh 207lbs
is not being able to sleep for 8 hours straight and only being able to sleep 5 hours max before waking up while on a calorie deficit, a function of being on calorie
deficit or not eating enough low-calorie dense foods like plain steam vegetables while on the deficit? In other words will I be able to sleep straight 8 hours again if I
remain in the deficit by putting in more steamed vegetables like broccoli and cabbage for example?

also my calorie deficit range from 400-900 calories.

&#x200B;

I'm wondering if loading up on lot of steamed plain broccoli and cabbage, while still maintaining the same calorie deficit, will help me sleep like a normal human
again. I need to sleep 8 hours to function normally at work.
I run a PPL routine. Is every day where I don’t do, for example, legs, considered a rest day for legs?
Would I, in theory, be able to run a full 7 day schedule without having dedicated rest days?
How do I stop hunching/rounding my shoulder out when I do a plank?? I feel like I cannot plank without this happening and I’m getting frustrated
I’m not sure if this is the right place to post this, but here goes. In January I injured my right knee from doing heavy calf raises with bad form. Ever since then, my
right knee has been in near constant discomfort, and I can’t run, bike, or even walk briskly without a good deal of discomfort. It’s had a significantly negative impact
on my mental and physical health.

The first thing my doctor told me to do was to see a physical therapist, which I did. I did six weeks of physical therapy, which did literally nothing to improve the
situation. Then she recommended a cortisone shot into my knee, which I did, but to no avail(in terms of reducing discomfort). Finally, she referred me to an
orthopedic surgeon to see if a surgery was necessary, but the surgeon adamantly said that a surgery would not help and that he couldn’t identify a cause for the
discomfort. I asked him if it was just a matter of waiting at this point, and he said “possibly.”



I’m completely clueless as to what do now. The possibility that my both my right knee and my right shoulder, which I also recently injured(the symptoms and overall
scenario of this shoulder injury are very similar to that of my knee injury), will never recover, leaving me unable to lift or perform other beneficial activities for the rest
of my life, is making me very sad. And yes, I only recently started physical therapy for my shoulder, but hopefully you can see where my fears are coming from. I’m
at a loss. Is there any hope left for my fitness journey?
How necessary is overhead tricep work? I’ve tried about every variation of tricep extensions / skullcrushers and I just can’t find anything that doesn’t ultimately hurt
my elbows.
[removed]
I’ve noticed one arm is larger than the other, masturbation jokes aside, should I do extra reps with the smaller arm or will they eventually equal out?
My right bicep is my smaller one and it happens that is also my stronger at the same time . Now if i do extra sets for it to catch up on size with the other im afraid
that it will get even more stronger and increase the strength gap . What do i do
Does jogging at a moderate pace raise vo2 max?
TLDR - Lost 15-20s Per/KM of running after 1 week off from vaccination. Normal or something wrong?

Yo guys, so after getting vaccinated, i was basically off exercise for about a week (Fever for a day or 2, then joint pain for some reason.)

As a result, my cardio seems to have dropped quite hard.

Pre vax i was running solid 3:30 for 1KM, 4min/K for 2, and 4:30 for 3KM.

Now, after missing about, 4 runs due to the vaccination, my time has slowed marginally by about 15-20s for each kilometer every run best effort.

I don't have many friends who exercise so I can't ask them to compare their times, just wondering if its normal to weaken this much from simply 1 week of no
running.

Haven't lost any strength for lifting, seems just to be cardio affected.
I've read that doing exercise especially cardio for more than 60 minutes will stimulate the release of cortisol. I've been doing regular cardio for about 3 months now
and find myself intentionally stopping at the 60 minutes mark even though somedays I just want to do a little more. Anyone who regularly does moderate intensity
cardio for upwards of 60 minutes who can chime in in whether there is any negative effects in prolonged cardio?

Edit: clarity
[deleted]
One quick and funny question, does anyone have bulging veins on side of the forehead like most of the time. I have it genetically like all the time and everyone is
always like "man look at your fucking veins" , yep they look like a two giant curved snakes
Is overtraining real, or a thing in this context?
185lbs body weight
bench 3x a week. 3 different sets of 4x3
Is it a good idea to add an egg white to my post workout shake? Using gnc amp sample pack that I got from their pro box. I'm still trying to find the right post workout
drink. I'm lifting 3x a week with the highest weights I can finish 3 sets of 10
So, I am an extremely novice lifter. When I bench I arch my back but it's like just enough to have a tennis ball at the base of my scapulae(ish)maybe a bit lower
(once again, I'm a novice). Occasionally I see people benching with basically a C-shaped spine with their butts off the bench(like it looks closer to a yoga bridge or
wheel). What is going on here? Why are people doing this? it seems like a really not good idea but I'm down for input.
If your in your first year of training is their a less of a chance of loosing muscle during a cut? Thanks
I’m just getting back into exercising, and something that has always pissed me off is no matter how many run-of-the-mill forearm exercises I do, the inside of my
forearm never gets any bigger. Are there any focused exercises for this area, or will it just eventually start to develop at a certain point?
Should i do legs ( squats,deadlifts) if i am already doing plenty of cardio such as stair climbing and staionary bike.Cardio sessions last an hr or until i don’t burn 300
to 400 calories as i am trying to lose fat.Been lifting for 10 months
[deleted]
Is it weird that my power clean is better than my bench?
[deleted]
I’m 186cm tall (6’2" in Freedom Units) and have been cutting from 94kg down to 80kg (\~207lbs down to \~176lbs) over the past 6 months or so. My BF% is
currently at around 21%, so I’m definitely on the scrawny side, muscle mass wise.

Ideally I’d like to get closer to 15% BF, but I’m not sure if I should continue cutting, or if I should start trying to recomp. By my calculations, for me to get to 15% BF
at my current lean mass, I’ll be weighing 76kg (\~167lbs) which isn’t exactly much at my height.

I’m 39 years old, so I’m no spring chicken anymore but I figured this is as good a way to spend my midlife crisis as any other.
My right hamstring is overactive and my left glute is overactive. What's the best way to remedy this?
Tennis elbow

Hi. I’ve had tennis elbow in both elbows for the past 5 months. It has been HELL to me but I’m slowly starting to recover. I’ve gone to a physical therapist once a
week.

I think it’s time to slowly get back to the gym to regain some strength and I was wondering if any of you (who has had it) have any tips to what to do and what not to
do, frequency and so on. Any advice would be welcome. Thanks.
I am M/5'9"/ 163lbs and am currently cutting. My TDEE is ~2000 and I'm eating 1600 calories a day. On my last cut I would wait 4 weeks before having a full on
cheat day but this cut I feel the cravings are so much worse. Like I want pizza and some donuts so bad it's almost all I can think about. I think about it for an
unhealthy amount of my day . This weekend is end of week 3 since I last cheated, and I'm thinking of cheating "a week early", just to get the food off my mind.
Although I also have a friend's wedding 2 weeks from now that I will also probably not eat healthy at.

**How often do you guys cheat and do you guys do just meals or a full day?**
I just got back into working out. So I was thinking of doing 3 days a week for now until I make it a habit then switch to either 5 days a week or 6 days a week (PPL
routine). Is that a good strategy? I've been on and off so many times so this time I really want to be consistent
[deleted]
When choosing a protein powder, is there anything I should consider beyond macros?

If Brand A is 30g protein and Brand B is 24g for the same amount, and Brand A is cheaper, shouldn’t I go for A every time if it fits my macros?
Hi guys,


Has anyone of you run madcow 5x5 and/or the Texas method? If so, what's your experience with it? And would you say either is as/more/less effective than 531? If
so, why?
Does alternating between pull up variants (i.e. chin ups one day, hammer pull ups one day, and normal pull ups one day) have enough overlap to be beneficial, or is
it better to focus on one or do each variation each day? I do three sets of 6 or 7 chin-ups/hammer grip and about 4 or 5 pullups (but have been making pretty steady
progress). My intuition is it's better to rotate through variations because they touch on more muscle groups and hopefully overlap enough to build on each other.

I've been focusing on bodyweight exercises since I'm on a diet (pull ups, push ups, bodyweight squats, bicycle crunches, and jogging/walking). I work out three days
a week and walk on my off days. I did some strength training before starting my diet so I could work up to doing chin ups and my idea is that I should be able to
make nominal progress on bodyweight exercises by losing weight even if it comes at the expense of muscle to some degree. The goal at this point is mostly to
maintain strength, while potentially adding reps as I lose weight. (5'10 high 150s, trying to get into the low 140s before focusing on building muscle again)

Does anybody use a fitness tracking device (Whoop, Apple Watch, Fitbit, ...)? What are your experiences? Is it worth the investment and wearing such a device all
day?
Hey, quick question, does stretching improves regeneration ? Im training legs + doing lot of running, so i want to ask if leg stretching improve or makes only worse
to the leg regeneration
Kind of a broad question which I'm going to investigate a bit further outside of reddit, but here goes;

If you were to study anything in the field of fitness/bodybuilding/nutrition with the intention of working with it and have a high chance of ending up with a job
afterwards, what would you study?
How to progressive overload with limited weights?
Question about how deadlifts should feel-

When I deadlift, it never quite feels the same as my other lifts. It’s not painful, just a little more uncomfortable —the resistance just feels different in my lower back,
not sure how to describe it.

I’ve worked really hard on my deadlift form, and I don’t think I’m doing anything obviously wrong. It’s also the only lift I do as a 1x5 on so I don’t really ever feel a
pump either. Soreness/recovery feels the same. Is that just how it feels for one set strength gains, or do I need to look into it further to figure out what I’m doing
wrong?
What’s the consensus on lifting during a fast? I’m currently intermittent fasting and I’ve actually enjoyed lifting during my fast window. I feel cleaner, in a way? I’m
starting to get fairly hungry in the mornings though (I typically eat my OMAD around 2:30-3:30 or so). What will give me better gains though: lifting on a full stomach
or lifting during my fast?
I have been bulking for some time now and not so long ago (about a month) I weighted around 162 and today I weighted 165.5. im 6’2 and im freaked out because
even tho im progressing in the gym I feel my body more fatty and I dont feel well. thoughts in my weight?
Is arching my back on incline db press ok or am I better off just doing flat bench db press?
Why is it so hard to build my biceps? I feel like I’ve been stuck curling 30 lbs forever. Ive been on the metallicadpa’s PPL plan from the fit wiki. It says to progress
when I can do 3x12 with proper form. This kinda seems impossible. Is there something I’m doing wrong or am I just impatient.
On the eccentric phase of a lift, should you engage the muscle throughout or release and reset on every rep.

Ex: doing lat pulldowns, when releasing on the top of a motion, should you keep some tension on your lats or let go and start a new rep every time?
I can't seem to find recipes for unflavoured beef protein powder. I just bought it and it kinda smells a bit, so I don't think I could drink it plain.

Do you have any suggestions?
Is it alright to keep following the same program or do you lose at not switching it up occasionally?
On rest days, do we have to consume the same amount of macros as compared to training days?

Or do we lower carb and fat intake and keep protein in take the same (weight in grams)?
22 yo with decent lifting experience. Starting a cut, looking to do about a 500 calorie deficit. I was debating on doing Arnold’s guide to cutting. Is this a good
program or would it be too difficult to recover since I’m not on gear? Also if anyone has any other lifting programs they’d recommend I’m all ears. Thanks!
Maybe this is totally stupid, but I can't figure out how to word it properly in order to find results online.

(this is not a medical/unrelated question even if the preface suggests otherwise, my question is in the second part)

I had a slight postural issue that I did not realize I have when I started training around 2 years ago. As a result, I have a pec imbalance that annoys me and that I've
been trying to fix for a while. During a covid quarantine, I stopped training and lost the majority of my gains, and thought it would be a good place to start fresh after
stretching and reinforcing the problematic muscles. I've been back at the gym since june and while some things improved, the pec imbalance is relatively the same.

Before I lost most of the muscle I gained, the sternal head of the right pec was a lot less developped than the left, due to a forward shoulder on the right, and much
more recruitment from the arm instead of the pec (right handed). So here's my question. Let's say the postural issue is restored and form is perfect, would the
muscle memory make it so the previously "imbalanced" muscle be restored up until it reaches the muscle mass it was at before and then start developping
"correctly", or it doesn't matter at all and new muscle tissue that was not recruited in the past can be developped before it gets to that point? Because right now with
the imbalance still present and the fact I haven't reached the mass I was at before makes me wonder how much muscle memory affects possible newly recruited
muscle fibers that I haven't tapped in before.

Hope it makes sense. And I do use dumbbells, and I did drop the weight significantly to perfect form, so it's unecessary to suggest these changes. I feel the right
pec much more than before, can flex it at will and the mind/muscle connection is there.

Thanks!
Just started boxing last week. Doing HIIT workouts 1 hour a day, 5 days a week. How long does it take for my cardio to improve so I can gas out less?
Can anybody help me out with a decent progressive overload plan for my arms with dumbbells?
hi guys. i have never done reverse (underhand) dumbbell bench press, and i wanted to try it today at home. But it seems that retracting the scapula like in normal
press is actually hurting a little and reducing range of motion. Searched in ytube and couldnt find any tip. Would you help me with this?
Should I increase the weight for the next session even if I can't finish my reps on the last set?

I'm on my 10th week at the gym, and my 3x10 bench press only went from 40kg (88.2lb) -> 52.5kg (115.7lb). It feels like I'm progressing way too slow considering
how I used to be able to bench 3x10 70kg (154.3lb) before my year break from the gym.

I'm doing upper 1 lower 1 upper 2 lower 2 split, and hit the bench press once per week during upper 1 as the main lift. I've only been adding weight if I am able to do
the 3x10 smoothly. Should I add weight every session instead to speed up progress, even if I reach failure on like the 7th-8th rep during the last set?
Is incline dumbbell press harder than flat dumbbell press? Is there also any way to calculate how much you could bench from incline press?
So dumb body fat question:

I measured with calipers (3 point) yesterday (almost definitely did it wrong) and for 18% BF

I measured with calipers (1 point) and got 25%

And my scales hover around 33-35%.


Am I doing myself a disservice by averaging it out to somewhere in the upper 20s%?

Obviously at this point I still need to lose weight but it’s a nice thing to keep track of as I’ll want to know how to monitor it. (My metrics are 213 lbs; 5’11” and I’m a
male).
Is it normal to experience a very sudden break in what you can lift in OHP?

I just managed 5x3 45 kg last week in my GZCLP-routine, today I tried 47.5 kg but I could only do 2 reps in my first set!
Aside from training specifically for powerlifting or to increase flat bench numbers, is there any benefit to flat benching with a relatively significant arch over just
decline benching?
I am a runner. I recently ran my first marathon and want to keep doing running, it's first time in my life I am doing sport consistently for longer than a year. At the
same time, I'm very thin - 183cm, 62kg and I can feel how weak I am. It would make more sense for me to hit the gym and build muscle all over the body than run
and lose even more weight (I manage to maintain my 62-64kg weight for now, but damn I focus on eating a lot). Is it realistic to continue running and start including
gym workouts for all body parts or I'm better off stopping running training (maybe 1 run a week to keep up the form) and focusing on gym?
[deleted]
If I do sumo deadlifts, my hands are on the area of the barbell where there's no knurling. Is that right?
Is this a decent routine? It's essentially this PHUL routine ([https://www.muscleandstrength.com/workouts/phul-workout]
(https://www.muscleandstrength.com/workouts/phul-workout)) but I've added a fifth day where I do Chinups, flat bench dumbell flys, dumbell shoulder press, face
pulls, ohp and 2 accessory exercises for arms?
Is there one site to track my weight, my heart rate during activities, and my weight lifting?

I have a renpho scale. I use strava for cycling, but want to start doing weight training. Guessing Jefit for that. And I use garmin connect to track my heart rate during
all workouts.

Is there a place that I can send **all this data**?

Samsung health doesn't seem to incorporate the heart rate data it gets from Garmin connect. So i am just not sure
My gym have these squat/powerracks with like hooks on the sides of the bar to grip the rack and act like safeties.

What are these racks called?
Question about dieting: I drink a Red Bull everyday (not the sugar free one). If I’m working out everyday and on a meal plan, will drinking Red Bull be detrimental to
weight loss?
If you can't powerlift at all you're pretty much limited to bodybuilding and calisthenics style training. nSuns can be applied to things like weighted calisthenics but in
terms of machines I'm not so sure
Watch youtube videos for each compound lift. Post form check video here. All the best!
If you don’t have a spotter, then go with lighter weights at first until you’re confident with your form. That’s what I have to do with my bench press
The Juggernaut "Pillars of..." series is good for squat, bench, and deadlift.

Megsquats has some good beginner-level videos as well.

Otherwise, yep, you've got it. Do your first set with just the bar, then add a little bit of weight and do another warmup set, and so on. Don't expect to do the same
weights on a barbell as on the smith machine, just try it out and see where you are. PS. When you write down what you did, make sure you count the weight of the
bar.
Go a bit lighter to begin with. It will feel a little different but not insanely different/difficult.
Create a 'basic just get something done' routine for such days

Even 1/4 of ur usual workload. Or treat it as a deload day.
It's one day, it doesn't matter at all. Life happens and people miss workout days, it's not a biggie if you aren't consistently missing.
Such days I go to the gym to sit in the gym for five minutes. Willpower usually comes when I get there, so I don't worry about it. The goal is to get to the gym, not to
work out. After that it's usually one set at a time, and I tell myself I will skip the supplemental work. And then I do the supplemental work anyway.

Willpower and motivation is nothing. What you need is habit and strategies.
One day is no big deal. Either play around with your schedule and make it up or just consider it gone and continue on schedule as normal. It’s only problematic
when it happens frequently.
Every now and then is not gonna kill you.

But I haven't missed one in like 3 years... I've put many of them OFF by one day though.

Don't forget, even a shitty workout is still a workout. Working out through a minor cold or through exhaustion can sometimes make you feel better, even.
https://thefitness.wiki/getting-started-with-fitness/
Start with compound movements. You can find some useful info on pushup and pull up progressions on youtube. But beware, because YouTube fitness is also
littered with bad info and steroid users who claim to be natural, which can warp beginners perceptions.
https://www.reddit.com/r/bodyweightfitness/wiki/routines/bwf-primer/

Even if you intend to primarily lift weights, the bwf primer is a good starting spot.
If you have access to a gym I would recommend that you begin by using machines to build up a decent strength foundation. Machines are great for people with a
lower strength level as you are able to load them with light weight. For example you can use a chest press machine to build up the strength to do 10 pushups.
Afterwards you could move on to the bench press.

Best regards.
Two most important things you can do is just get in the gym consistently, and eat more! Gym can be overwhelming, and you might have no idea what youre doing
at first, but the more you go the more comfortable you'll get.

Recommend starting a beginner program, dive into the youtube world to start accumulating knowledge, and find a workout buddy.
No, there is no consensus. It's also the least important decision you'll make in your training career. Just pick something and give it your all.
Any on the wiki. Many roads lead to Rome, as they say.
You can be strong as ox, but muscle hide under fat.

No such thing as best or optimal.
It depends on what you’re starting point and goals are A routine for

Person A) athlete with 13% body fat and muscle tone

Will be different for

Person B) obese person with 30% body fat

Will be different for

Person C) skinny person with 12% body fat.
The /r/fitness basic beginners routine is a good starting point
Lots of walking with proper shoes can help. Also one foot balancing
Check out the book Fixing Your Feet
There are muscles on the bottom of the foot that can be strengthened. You should be able to do this without buying anything.
There is no specific amount.
Too much to me would mean I am unable to recover for my strength training. That amount will vary between individuals.
Wanting to walk to the liquor store without feeling fatigue is probably one of the funnier outcome goals I’ve seen for an exercise program
We would need more information and even at that, you should see a doctor if you are concerned. There are multiple factors here: how long the run was, your pace,
how long you've been doing it daily, etc. Going from not exercising at all to running everyday is a big change.
The upper limit is going to be determined by how much you can eat and what you can recover from.
I know that changing routine scares the shit out of us. Before moving to my current routine I spent like 6 to 10 hours studying what should i choose to so it fits my
schedule and so I don’t loose muscle… it’s actually dumb, if you train consistently with enough volume and nutrition you’ll never loose muscle IMO
there’s only one thing you need to know and you already heard/read for sure : the best routine is the one you can stick to.
IMO if I were you I’d rather go to a 4 day routine like PHUL since it’s quite flexible
Or to PHAT which is 5 day.
Don’t worry, even if it seems like working out less in frequency, the volume definitely is enough for muscle gains, these are trusted routines.
You’re in college, enjoy both of the two worlds don’t set yourself pointless barriers.
Fear kills dreams
> would it make a difference going Thursday and Saturday instead of Tuesday and Saturday

Yep it would. More days between training sessions (per muscle group) = more/better recovery = better performance.
How are you progressively overloading your push-ups if it's the same amount and type each time?
From 531 Forever: "Remember, the reason to deload is so that you never have to deload. If you are already feeling rundown, you are too late."
Wendler preaches deload before you feel like needing it
You should do it
I always do a deload on the 7th week. Idea is to deload before you need it. I push cardio/conditioning a little harder during that rest week.

You can skip it if you want, just take responsibility for the results.
>Is it better to workout 4 times a week even if means two workout days might be in a row?

It's totally fine to do a 4 day program in 4 days of the week (which will require some being back-to-back due to the nature of time).
> GZCLP doesn’t really have any biceps/triceps/abs isolation so I figured I’d do it on rest days when I get the time

No. You don't need those things. Stick with the program. If you want to add isolation work like that do it when you know you can recover from the program and add
it slowly, but add it to your workout days as T3 excercises (one at a time, preferably one set at a time). You will need more recovery than you think.
Pick a tree. Run to it, fastly. Repeat.

***Tree should be on the same side of the road you're on***
Hill sprints, regular sprints, sled pulls.
https://thefitness.wiki/routines/cardio-and-conditioning/#High_Intensity_Interval_Training
I liked insanity.
Bulk until you don't like your abs. Cut until you don't like your biceps.
In other words, it's completely up to you.
You get to decide when the best time is.
Check out the best body fat range for muscle gains, I remember it being something like 10% to 16% but check it out yourself since I might be off. Cut and bulk
between those limits
What's your goal? Are you trying to be a physique competitor? If so, then you don't want to go too far. Do you just want to look good? Are you getting too close to
NOT looking good now? Are you a strength athlete? If so, how competitive are you?

About what's your bf %? A good rule of thumb is <20% for most anything. Strength allowing for a higher BF level.
Big muscle or big fat? Bulking for at least a year, if not two is great.
You can do whichever you want. There is no should.
You might be able to move more weight with the reduced ROM, but with the lack of stretch reflex it probably makes very little difference. I would continue to do ATG
because it looks awesome, but I'm sure you could move more weight with cutting depth (and get more stimulus with ATG)
Bulk until you hate yourself. Cut until you get weak. Repeat.

If you've been on the bulk cycle for several months, it's reasonable to switch tracks for a while.

Also you look pretty normal for a person not flexing at all. See if you still like how you look with good posture and a flex.
Depends on what your goals are. Personally I'd say keep on bulking.
I was out for 5 days after having 4 removed. The pain won't be super terrible after a day or two but you need to worry about dry sockets. I'd give it at 4 days, and a
week before you try any hard effort lifting.
I went to hockey practice the same day lol, but I’ve seen other people be out for a week. Probably should just ask your dentist. I think lifting heavy would risk busting
the stitches or whatever in your mouth.

Was over a week for me cause they kept bleeding
Your dentist will know best
I had a tooth extracted last Friday and am taking 5 days off from aerobic exercises. Might take a couple more days before lifting again. I have been walking at a sub-
aerobic level on the treadmill every day just to keep moving, and even at that, can sometimes get a throbbing feeling in that area. And the pressures involved in
lifting can be higher. I would not rush things. I have had other teeth out in the past and waited at least a week before going back to lighter weights.
It's up to you, but in that position I would still go in and do any exercises that didn't cause pain.
Smoke weed
Use more healthy fats in your diet to increase calories without increasing volume. Drink your calories. Do conditioning to increase hunger. Wake up earlier. Try and
add a small amount of calories per day to acclimate to higher calories. There are multiple ways to grow your appetite.
Eat even if you aren't hungry.
Eat anyway.
eat more junk foods and calorie dense foods
Eat calorically dense foods.
Okay, here's how I gained 20 lbs with a tiny apetite:

Eat a donut every meal. It's not that hard and it's 1500 calorie.

No, I didn't get fat.

Yes, my doctor is disappointed.
Use a barbell on a landmine set up.
Barbell rows
More sets.
Make it more difficult somehow. More reps, more sets, less rest between sets, paused reps, tempo reps, etc.
[removed]
[removed]
You know you can do more than one set, right?
I don't see a good reason why lat raises in particular need a lot of reps.

I think anything above 5 and below 30 is probably okay.
Why not drop to 15-18 and the work back up to the upper 20's and then up the weight again?
I would add some weight - aiming for something you can do for 8-12 reps, and do it for 3-4 sets. The volume you are doing probably is not as helpful as it would be
to introduce some progressive overloading, which would be easier done by breaking up the movement into sets.
15-20 is my favorite without a doubt. There's nothing inherently wrong with doing 26
It will get easier
Is it possible you chose a training max that was just too high?
Need to make sure you are allowing your body to recover by feeding it and by sleeping. Your body is a pretty cool machine and it will adapt to your training, but you
need to give it the tools to do so.
Everyone starts somewhere.
Does it matter? Everyone has a different starting point and progression. Just keep training, it will improve over time.
As long as you're training, you will get stronger and the deadlift number will go up. Are you confident of your lifting technique? I have a strong feeling you can lift
more. Have you tried lifting two shopping bags or buckets of water (on either side of you) with 20 kg in each?
If it's fat just lose weight with a calorie deficit. Cardio helps with it. If it's muscle you have to stop training legs and lose weight.
Start here, link below. Reducing your calories will make the biggest difference. Exercise can only burn a relatively small amount of calories

https://thefitness.wiki/weight-loss-101/
i mean girls can like dudes asses no cap
well if by doing cardio you are in a calorie deficit and therefor lose weight then... yes

if you're eating in a surplus? no
Sleeping is very much a skill. Just viewing it from the perspective of it being a skill can change the way you approach sleep in general. Sleep is very psychological
as well. I suggest getting into a consistent routine if you aren’t already doing so. You can create extremely beneficial sleep habits through just consistently having
the same “bedtime rituals”. Also, if you’re expecting to wake up after the 5 hour mark out of just mere annoyance regarding the issue then you may be
subconsciously setting yourself up to do just that. I hope your situation resolves soon though bro. Take care
give it a try and find out
I've never had a problem sleeping in a deficit, but my deficits typically are in the 300-500 range. Maybe eating inconstantly is confusing your body?
I found saving some cals for end of day helped a bit.

>I'm wondering if loading up on lot of steamed plain broccoli and cabbage, while still maintaining the same calorie deficit, will help me sleep like a normal human
again.

that would also likely help a bit.
>Is every day where I don’t do, for example, legs, considered a rest day for legs?

Yes.

>Would I, in theory, be able to run a full 7 day schedule without having dedicated rest days?

Also yes.
In theory, yes. But in practice, you might find yourself burning out after a couple weeks. If you want to try it, go ahead though.
So your shoulders are rounded outwards and not collapsing inwards? Trying looking forward during your plank and think about squeezing your shoulder blades
together, like you're trying to squeeze a quarter between them.
Check out the content from the youtube channel "kneesovertoes guy", he's developed a following very quickly and he has a lot of stuff made to help people in your
kind of situation. Proposes a program of low risk exercises for gentle rehabilitation, seems to benefit a lot of people.
Get a second opinion.

Have you tried cable rope pushdowns? I found them easiest
[removed]
[removed]
eventually even out. Do unilateral stuff with dumbbells if youre really worried about it
Maybe don't worry about it. Keep training both
how long have you been training, what has your programming been, and how much weight have you gained so far? If you're still a relative beginner you probably
don't need to do much beyond running normal programming, these minor imbalances aren't that big of a deal and with regular training they often work themselves
out on their own.
Yes you don't need high intensity for many cardio adaptions.
When I got vaccinated for the 2nd time I had a really hard time doing my sesh as well. Not that I wasn’t able to lift as much but my body was freaking tired.
Approximately a week after everything got back to normal, so I guess this is a side effect but this isn’t long term
Not what you’re asking but I just wanted to say that those numbers seem a little weird to me.

If you can do 2k @ 4:00, 4:30 should be like your max effort 10k pace or a reasonably hard but not soul crushing 5k. Going off the 1k @ 3:30 your times should be
even better. I mean you obviously know your times better than I do but I’m just curious why the drop offs are so huge here.
Stop worrying about transient changes in your hormones.
What are you asking?
What are you afraid will happen if you go, say, 75 minutes?
I'm sure there are varying studies and results on this so take it with a grain of salt, but I imagine it has more to do with intensity than just an arbitrary time limit. I
wouldn't worry too much about it, just be sure to give yourself ample rest and recovery time to counteract the stresses on your body.
There is nothing wrong with “releasing cortisol” per se. When lifting, you can’t make gains without it. The negative effects of cortisol come from mildly elevated
levels over a long period of time—like chronically elevated levels. As u/eric_twinge stated, transient changes are, at worst, neutral.
I would usually add abs into my leg day!
Time spent working out does not necessarily equal a good workout, but what do your weights/sets/reps look like that your legs are jelly in half an hour but you don’t
feel like you’ve done enough?
Rest longer, will get fatigued less easily
Do some of the leg accessory work unilaterally/single leg. It’ll take more time and has the bonus effect of helping you work out any left/right imbalances. Plus abs,
like someone else said.
Nothing wrong with throwing in some Pallof Presses or Ab Wheel work with a leg day, provided it isn't going overboard and affecting your ability to finish the main
exercises.
Which PPL are you doing? The beginner one I did a while back only had one set of squats per week or something like that. I found that laughable, even for a
beginner progam, and regularly did at least 3 sets of squats a week.

Not gonna lie, 30 mins doesn't seem like a lot of time for a lifting session.

Edit: If I wasn't clear. You don't necessarily need to add accessories. You could add a set or two to your core work.
I usually put lower back stuff on lower body days. Reverse hypers, back extensions etc. Could also do abs
I got some serious temple-vein-gains when I lost a bunch of weight.
Overtraining is real but this isn't it.
Overtraining is real but it's a syndrome rather than something that you can tell from looking at a program.

Its like saying : "Is this obesity? I eat 3000 calories a day."

A level of work which would be nothing to a professional athlete might lead to overtraining if you or I attempted it.

Its generally in the domain of elite athletes rather than recreational lifters, though, so I wouldn't even ever worry about it. When you feel "overtrained" you're
probably just fatigued. Take a week off!
Overtraining is a real thing, but it's so much harder to actually do then people think. You're good.
I experience it once in a while.

For me, It's mostly due to under-receovery.

Ane example of this is me lifting 4 times a week including a soccer match and walking 12k steps a day while being in a 1000-1500 calorie deficit. This is even with 8
hours of sleep a night, but I just can't recover.

It stops bugging me after eating for maintenance and laying of the gym for 1-2 weeks and walking less :-)
Not really. Protein from eggs is more bio available when it’s cooked.
Why do you want to add an egg white? What are you trying to accomplish? It's fine to add, but things like protein availability and whatever are bs for most people so
the whole idea of a post-workout shake is a bit loaded. Do what makes you happy, but I try to avoid complicating things.
Arching in the bench press is completely safe. If someone is arching like that, they probably at least dabble in powerlifting, and their butt is almost certainly on the
bench.

https://www.powerliftingtowin.com/improve-your-bench-press-arch/
Is their butt actually off the bench or is it just the lower part of their butt touching?

My suggestion is not to worry about how other people train.
The arch is good, they're training in a way that helps them move more weight efficiently.

As for the difference in the *size* of the arch, that's often a mobility thing. If you work on your T-spine mobility, including things like laying over a foam roller as part
of your warmup, over time you may be able to get more of an arch. You may also be able to get a better arch by learning some setup technique tips. And finally,
body type makes a difference in how it looks. A skinnier person will appear to have a bigger arch just because you can see more daylight under their back.
the people that lift their butts off the bench just doesnt know how to bench it properly
If you follow the standard recommendations, this isn't really something you need to worry about at any level.
It is easier to maintain less muscle, so kind of.
Less of a chance compared to what?
High weekly volume of pulling exercises- doing 20+ sets per week of back exercises helped my forearms a lot.


However if they really are a priority, then you may want to add forearm isolation too. You can do forearm curls and reverse forearm curls (start with a light weight.)
Also farmers walks and plate pinches may be helpful.
They can be slow to develop. Mine took a few months of doing forearms twice a week.

What's worked for me:

Forearm roller, underhand wrist curls, reverse curl ez curl bar (put your thumb on top so you activate your firearm muscles more). And if you can get one, a thick
short bar for seated row.

Plus I also do lots of rock climbing....
So... how much weight have you gained?

Forearms have really small muscles. You'll probably need to increase. Your overall muscle mass by like 10-20% at least to have noticeable changes in forearm
size.
First off, being overly focused on forearm size is pretty weird and mostly only incels care.

But to answer your question: Your forearms are where you get your grip strength from. The best way to develop them is through heavy and high rep compound
movements that challenge your grip: deadlifts, barbell rows, and pullups.
Cardio is not a substitute for resistance training, so you should do both. Doesn’t have to be a huge amount or add a lot of time to your routine. It may temporarily
impact your performance on the bike/stairmaster as you adapt to the added training load. Ultimately, though, it should improve your cardio performance.
If you want bigger and stronger legs, training them with resistance is a great way to accomplish that.
Cardio is mostly for cardiovascular health. Building muscle requires resistance training.
Yes. If you want muscles in your legs, you should do leg exercises. There's a section on the wiki about this.
Depends on your goals.
If you want to lose fat then you should focus more on lifting and diet than simply cardio alone. Have you looked into intermittent fasting or keto?
Pick a program and do exactly what it says, eat in line with your goals
consistency is key and a single day (or week) won't change anything in the long run. just pick a program and follow it.
Are you sure you read it? Because your question is covered by it.
It's unusual but it isn't unheard of. Probably a sign that your bench technique ain't great unless there's a big disparity in how much you've been training the two lifts.
My power clean is 1.5x my bench. But I’m a female - I think that’s an important distinction to make given upper/lower strength differences.
No, bench isn't a useless exercise, but I've never heard of postural problems or muscle imbalances occurring because of a weak chest. More pulling than pushing is
probably a good thing.
You are barely out of puberty at the age of 22.
[deleted]
Recomp is almost a waste of time for any natural lifter. Just keep cutting until you get to your goal.
Honestly it might be better to take a year and focus on building up muscle. I'm, 6'0", started at ~175lbs and looked like a normal skinny dude. Spent about a year
and a half getting up to ~190lb and then cut ( a bit too much) down to 170lbs (still 12-13% BF) and look and feel much much better. If I hadn't focused on building
first and decided to cut lower or "recomp" I'd still be spinning my wheels.

Nobody likes it but sometimes you have to just get bigger.
Is there a question?
https://youtu.be/M4K0s792wAU
Do what you want. Most people will tell you to cut and bulk. I recommend recomping because it teaches you to control your diet long term in a consistent manner.
Cut and bulk cycles are only necessary if you're trying to compete in body building shows. It basically depends on your goals.
Not sure what you mean. What do you mean by overactive? What are your experiencing that is leading you to this conclusion?
Physiotherapist
>My right hamstring is overactive and my left glute is overactive.

As diagnosed by whom?
Ask your pt
I'll have a cheat meal whenever I feel like it could be once a week for a few weeks straight, could be once a month. I just make sure not to go too far over my
calories (like max 500 calorie surplus) and still hit my protein
I account for my cheat meals/days by including them in my calorie count.
I have a cheat meal whenever a social obligation dictates. It's been months since I had one.
I'll cheat maybe once a month but I try not to eat more than a 500 cal surplus and even then I'll compensate over the next week by lowering my deficit by another
100 - 200 calories.

But honestly for stuff like weddings where it's going to be difficult to track what you'll be eating, just make sure that cheat day doesn't turn into a cheat week and that
you get back on track the day after.
I eat mostly what I want when cutting, but if I cheat, it's just with snacks/sweets.
Yes. You could even train 3 days a week your whole life and get very big and strong
If you've been on and off many times, maybe trying to commit to 6 days a week isn't a great idea. 3 is fine with good programming.
is it in the upper portion of your forearm? could be tennis elbow
See a physio.

If it’s tendinitis you might be making it worse.
Anything I do to work my grip strength always kills my forearms. Dead hangs, plate carries, fat grips, etc.
taste might be different and I've noticed a lot of protein powders destroy my stomach so I am a little more careful but if you're not worried about taste and stomach
issues then yea I would go for the 30g one
The other thing I would consider is ingredients if that’s important to you. I personally try to avoid artificial sweeteners like sucralose or erythritol because they really
bother my stomach. In general I try to use brands with cleaner/fewer ingredients because I personally feel it’s healthier.

Some brands also do 3rd party testing to give assurance they are what they say they are since the FDA doesn’t regulate them.
I ran TM for a while as a beginner. For anyone past the point of running LPs I’d say less effective than 5/3/1. TM used to be a common suggestion to people who
had stalled on LPs, but it’s really just another LP with a slower progression rate.
I ran Madcow to not much success, it just kind of peaked what I already had. Looking back I would have ran something with a bunch more volume and focused on
building a base
Using varying grips is generally better. The main exception would be if you are training for a specific task (for example, a physical fitness test where you have to use
a certain grip), in which case specificity would say you should practice that grip.
Best advice would be to head over to the wiki and find a program. Probably use the r/bodyweightfitness one if you're looking for bodyweight exercises only.
I bought a GW3 mainly to track my activities. I activate the Samsung health programs every cardio session and every lifting session. Just to track my days that I've
been working out, to be able to backtrack to if I'm feeling off a day and see that I've not had any day off yet.

The calories burned part is taken with a 25~50% cut of what the watch is saying.
What do you expect from such a device?

For example the burned calories are highly inaccurate.

I wear a Galaxy Watch A2 all day. My main fitness use is tracking my runs. And I can use the watch for music, so I don't need my phone while running.
I’ve had an Apple Watch for 4 years now, it’s a fun device, but I don’t put stock into any numbers it gives me. It’s quite interesting to see the resting heart rate, sleep
patterns, that kind of stuff thou.
Why do you want one?
I'm not an expert by any means, but I would say stretching is more or less to prevent injury and to not feel like a walking refrigerator.
No, stretching doesn't really do anything for recovery, but if it feels good you can keep doing it.

Extreme stretching (to the point where it's painful) can damage muscles in much the same way as intense lifting. This can theoretically lead to some muscle growth,
but it's not helping your recovery if that's your goal.

If you're currently stretching a lot, take a week to stretch less and see if you feel better. If you don't stretch at all and want to start, I'd do the same, take a week to
add some in and see what it does for you. There's no compelling reason to *always* stretch or to *never* stretch, so go ahead and figure out what works for you.
I like some static stretch post workout or in rest days

At least for calves and hamstrings. It helped me with RDLs.

Never before tho
I'd study to be an RD or a physical therapist
more reps, more sets, slower reps, less rest, different exercises
More volume or less rest time
More reps or harder exercises.
Deadlifts pretty much always feel subjectively harder than other lifts for me even at the same relative level of intensity. I have never gotten a pump from low rep
deadlifts. Post a form check if you’re worried but it sounds like what you’re describing is just how deadlifts normally feel.
I only ever get a pump from a deadlift when I do several sets of 10.
Anecdotal but I hardly ever get pumps from pulling. A few times I've had a strong pump in my lower back after long sets.

If you have form concerns posting a form check will be the best way to settle them.
Most people will generally do better with some food in them, so experiment with that in mind and see if you are like most people or a weird exception!
There will be no significant difference assuming you can provide the same intensity during a fasted workout as a non-fasted workout.

I personally cannot train fasted as I get very nauseous without something in my stomach.
Whatever feels better for you.
Seek the aid of someone trained in matters of human psychology
I highly doubt you'd feel 3 pounds. I gained 20 pounds over the last 2-3 months and except for chinups being more difficult and running not being as easy, I don't
really feel any different, similar height and weight as you. Maybe you're just eating food that's making you feel bloated and not good?
My thoughts are that your weight is 15 pounds less than mine at the same height and I am pretty skinny. Keep eating and keep lifting.
3lbs in a month is somewhere between absolutely nothing and possibly the perfect amount of progress. We can't tell you. 3lbs is within range of daily fluctuations,
so if you aren't weighing yourself consistently it probably isn't reliable data to even use. If you weigh yourself consistently everyday and you are confident you are up
a legitimate 3lbs, then you have to judge your progress and go from there.
It's ok, retract your shoulders too
How long have you been stuck there? How much weight have you gained?
How many pounds do you expect you should be curling after another 15 years of progress? There isn't much space in between where you are now and where that
is
Here is what I do personally since 3 weeks and Its working well, my biceps are seeing huge progres.

I do my curls seated and alternating (same PPL as u, 4 sets hammer, 4 sets regular, 1 min rest), the concentric (lifting up) phase is done fast, because i focus
mostly on having a controlled ecentric phase (lowering the dumbbell), which is more efficient for building the muscle and lets you take heavier weights. That means
for example i do hammer curls with 16kg each hand, ill do 8 good form, then i start to cheat a bit by using momentum with the bench and leaning forward to help the
lifting up phase, but then I control the lowering phase very actively.
By alternating, I can really focus on the form and the contraction.
Also when i do regular curls, i dont focus on the range of motion but simply going below and above parallel, this might sound like partial reps but u dont need the
whole motion religiously to feel the burn, and again this allows the use of heavier weights since im not doing perfect curls slowly but just pumping out reps.

So to sum up : seated, alternated, heavy weight but not too heavy that u cant do 8 clean on first set, dont be too strict on the form but keep the elbows tucked, focus
on lowering phase
Try drop sets? Sometimes maybe u need to adapt and not just biblically follow a program

Or up the weight and do 3x8 or 3x10
If you've completely plateued then change something up. Add another set, more weight, add another bicep session in the week. No harm in trying to figure out what
works for you.
Linear progression ends at some point and biceps are something that a lot of people struggle with. I gave up on measuring bicep progression through weight used a
long time ago. Try some different rep ranges, experiment with some exercises, try different training frequencies, etc. Figure out what works. But thinking you'll
continuously and regularly increase the weight of dumbbells you curl feels like a losing battle to me.
Incline curls, hammer curls and any arms in front curl variation, this will allow you to hit both heads and the brachiallas
I would try using barbells instead of DBs (assuming you’re using DBs). Maybe try cheat curls to get more overload.
Generally you want to stretch out the muscle fully while keeping tension on the muscle the whole time. Like use the tension to stretch the muscle to get the best
range of motion. ROM only really counts if your muscles are working.
I'd say always keep them engaged. Unless you're doing deadlifts, then you would reset or maybe a type of bench press where you disengage at the bottom (I think
it's called a spoto press iirc)
I'd say it depends on the lift. If you're doing curls, straightening your arms all the way out and even activating the antagonistic muscle (triceps) will ensure you went
through a full range of motion. I wouldn't do that on bench though, unless you had some spot bars. It depends where the rep starts and ends. Bench starts at on the
eccentric, where curls start at the concentric. Lifts that start with concentric and can be safely unloaded between reps are... safe to unload between reps. It's the
difference between deadlifts and touch and go deadlifts. It just depends on what kind of training you want to do. Or you can be a savage and do pause reps in the
bottom of a squat.
It’s not a common enough supplement that I’d expect to see much.

Generally, I would recommend not buying beef protein powder, especially not unflavored versions. That just sounds like eating beef with extra steps and worse
flavor.
I would just try mixing it into other savory dishes. Like soup, stew, chilli, etc.
If you enjoy it and keep making progress there is no need to change your program
If it's working well for you, keep at it
As long as u make gains

Meaning u upping the weights from time to time

Then it should be fine

And even if u stagnate it might not be due to the program if its a decent one. Maybe the diet didnt keep pace.
Fundamentally, it's the average deficit that matters, not if you eat at maintenance or a lower deficit some days than others.

You don't *have* to, but having same calories each day is way simpler to work with instead of taking a, mostly, blind guess at how much you're burning on days you
exercise.

You also use the higher calories on nontraining days to recover.
Check and see

The body doesnt really work in 24h triggers for it to matter much

And u cant lower carbs too much before the next work day cuz u need to refill glycogen reserves.

Do keep protein in a good amount whatever else u change
You can do it either way. Experiment and see what works best for you
Protein should be roughly the same every day. Some people like more carbs on their training days.

If you're in a cut and low on calories, putting some carbs on your training days (especially before training, or even in the middle of a long session) may help you feel
like you have more energy during the workout. Or if you notice you're particularly hungry on certain days, like maybe the day after a hard workout, you might want
to have more carbs/fat on those days.

If you don't have a particular reason to change your macros day to day, it may be easier to just stick with the same numbers every day.
The same, its really hard to know how much fewer cals youre burning and it all comes out in the wash week to week; day to day really isnt that important
5/3/1 FSL is my go to cutting program. Highly recommend.
People aren't symmetrical and continuing to lift will typically even out most imbalances well enough. I would honestly not worry about it and continue to lift and get
stronger overall unless it's causing serious issues (which it doesn't sound like from your post).
Does one side of your rib cage stick out more than the other? Mine is like this, and it gives the impression of one shoulder sticking out slightly farther and one pec
_looking_ smaller than the other even though in reality it isn’t.
The body adapts. Alan thrall talks about it in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ase4bsmoBec

The body does not need to be, nor is it meant to be, symmetrical.

If you're worried about how other people perceive, most likely only you notice because you know it. And even if they did they don't care. And even if they did it
doesn't concern you.
That would be regular interval training, not HIIT if it's an hour long. But I would keep going with the interval training (or LISS like jogging) and boxing and your
endurance will improve.
What program are you currently following?
https://thefitness.wiki/routines/strength-training-muscle-building/#Dumbbell_Focused_Routines
You could try with dumbells, go a little higher reps and don't supinate as much.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8OD0teBMb8
You need to bench more per week. If you aren’t already, follow a program in the wiki
I would recommend you follow an already established program that will tell you how and when to increase the weights each week. If you want to keep following your
program then I would say not to increase the weight if you can't finish the reps on the last set. Increasing the weight too quickly will just make it to where you stall
out.
What does your routine say to do?
Incline press is typically going to mean moving less weight than flat, it invokes less chest and more delts compared to flat.

There is no exact ratio of incline to flat, will depend on the individual.
i find it easier with incline db press than flat dp press since i think its kinda hard to set up a flat db press
Your scale is wrong, don't use that for any metric other than weight.

Measuring with more points is always going to be more accurate.
If I only measured my stomach I would report a much higher bf% than I truly am because I carry more fat there. If I measure my chest or arms I would report a much
lower bf% than I truly am.

Knowing your exact bodyfat percentage is not really helpful for anything other than if you are curious.
Use one method and stick with it so you can track progress. Maybe the number isn't accurate, but the measured changes will be sufficient to track progress.
IMO it’s generally pointless to track BF% because it’s too hard to consistently measure with any accuracy and there’s nothing to really do with the information
anyway. You’re going to get to a point where you are happy with your results or you won’t, and that’s probably going to be based more on what you accomplish in
the gym and what you see in the mirror than any sort of measurement.
It’s not like taking 3 inaccurate measurements averages out to a more accurate measurement, so no. Taking caliper measurements on yourself is difficult to do, esp
if you are not experienced at doing it. I don’t have a lot of experience with home scales, but if they have any ballpark accuracy at all, you would have to weigh under
consistent conditions—same time of day, 12 hr fast, abstain from alcohol, caffeine, heavy exercise for 12 hr—and only do it every 3-4 weeks. There is too much
fluctuation in water weight to take those readings every day. With your numbers, unless you have a larger frame, you are likely over 30%.
Well it is more weight so that’s probably your answer
Yes very normal
That really comes down to what 'relatively significant' is relative to.

An arch provides more stability and tightness which will help adding load to the muscles you want want to work, while also being somewhat protective of the
shoulder joint.
Kinda sounds like something's gotta give here to me.
You will have to cut back on the running to make room for your weight training, but there's no reason you can't do both; look at any pro boxer, wrestler,
football/rugby player etc. If you want an example of someone who specialises in both, check out Alex Viada's stuff.
Bruises take time to heal.
it can be. i have narrow ass shoulders so i only have a third of my hands on the knurling.
Depending on the bar, personally I like to have my arms being parallel/straight. Some fingers would be on the knurling & the others not.

Hope this helps
This is a decent routine, but I think it’s better without your fifth day. If you want to train more, use that day to do some conditioning.
You can connect your Garmin and Strava, so anything that uploads to Garmin automatically links with Strava.
I think you’re talking about a smith machine but really not sure.
Smith machine
Power racks, Half racks, Squat racks
Yeah I do have access to the college gym. Thanks for the advice I’ll be sure to try that!!
There is a consensus for what's not so good, but no consensus for what's the best? I guess that makes sense. I will start with the basic routine on the Wiki and
probably move to 5/3/1 afterwards.
30 minutes a day, every day for 4 weeks now, mostly run but jog if im tired, rarely walks.
Such a solid, succinct answer.
Yeah i agree, i should stop overthinking this and just train hard. I would love to do Phul or Phat but the only problem is that my schedule is very inconsistent so
some weeks i wouldn't be able to spend an hour or more working out each day. That's why i was wondering about the routine i wrote. I would have an easier time
working out for 20-30minutes 6x times a week rather than 4x times a week for 60-75 minutes. It's much easier for me to create time for a 20-30 minute workouts
since my daily schedule is so inconsistent. I'm afraid I'd miss some workouts and ruin the program if i went on a 4 or 5 day split with longer workouts. English isn't
my native language so im sorry if this is a bad explanation of my situation.
Only problem is that I train Volleyball Monday wednesday friday and saturday so my legs really doesnt recover any time
Well I'm still unable to get through all of them, so I just aim to do more
>Tree should be on the same side of the road you're on

Sounds like a waste of an opportunity to improve dynamic agility.
Instructions unclear, ran up the tree, now I live with the squirrels.
Thanks but I'm looking for like a full workout video to follow along too. I do want to go running up some hills soon thro.
Im working for my physical strength. I just want to reach my limits. I think that I’m about 15 or 17% BF.
Yeah I figured I get more of a stimulus with ATG, so yeah I probably will continue. And fuck yes it certainly does look awesome lol. Also I like your name
To look good naked and build muscle. Figured I’d keep building muscle for a few more months and then shed the fat
I will thanks
Yes... :) this answer will serve everyone well.
idk, i thought lat raises were better on the higher rep range like 20 and up. I might be wrong
I really hope so, I can’t wait for the deload week to come
Not really, I used 90% of the calculated 1rep max ( of 5 reps weight) the weight itself isnt hard but my legs and lower back are weak
How can I tell if it’s muscle or fat? I guess if it’s hard or not?
[removed]
I edited my last line. Basically if there's any negative effects in prolonged cardio
Maybe nothing for a day, but my bigger concern is the effects of elevated cortisol levels through long cardio sessions over the course of months.
Interesting, that makese sense, thank you!
I mean 4 big leg workouts usually end me but they’re quick. I could do more with other muscles
Thanks! Will do
I cutted down some weight this summer, now im in the bulk phase but anyway i think if i could be fat like a pig i would still have them haha
good good, moving to 5 days a week then thx
Their butts are like totally off the bench.

I don't bother them, I just don't understand what's going on and I don't know if it's something I should be working towards.
It’s also weird to have an arm that looks like you can pick up moderately heavy things and put them down again from one angle, and look like the poster child for
weenie hut jr when rotated 90 degrees
What someone with small forearms would say
Thanks!
Thanks
Thanks
Thank you!
Probably the latter. Due to lockdowns gym is closed so I don’t have access to a Bench
Never tought of the wiki, i will Now delete my comment
It’s faster to just keep cutting until I’m at my goal BF and then bulk back up?
Thanks for your input.

It seems cut/bulk is the consensus and a recomp is not really the way to go.
Pretty sure you can figure out the question just by thoughtfully reading the OP.
Ah, it seemed more obvious in my head when I wrote it out.

Basically, do I recomp or do I cut more then bulk back up? That other guy seems to think it’s best to cut all the way down and then bulk back up.
Just want to add a tldw if you can't watch it: the idea that recomp doesn't work is a common fallacy that many weightlifters believe. It certainly *does* work well,
though you will not gain as much muscle in a bulk. Studies do suggest that bulk will give you 5-15% more gains though that comes at a tradeoff with more fat gain.
It's more about what you prefer and which tradeoffs are important to you.

Not facts, just my own anecdotal advice: stay at 176 or go up to the 180s and just maintain there. Getting enough protein and a good workout program is much
more important than a calorie surplus at your level right now.
Yeah, I see there’s been more excellent perspectives shared here.

I’m not doing bodybuilding, I just want to look fit and see how strong I can get while holding a 9-5, being social and not make it the focal point of my entire life.

I saw the video posted elsewhere, made by Jeff Nippard and it made a lot of sense.

Definitely something to consider!
When doing exercises my right hamstring is working much more than my left. My hamstrings in general are engaged much more than my quads and glutes. I have
disproportionately large hamstrings and my right one is larger than my left.
Self-diagnosis.
My left glute is larger and my right hamstring larger than my left. I've got large hamstrings in general though due to slight anterior pelvic tilt. The hamstrings feel tight
(particularly my right) but the muscle is not short.
Thanks. I’ll be starting out with less frequency first then see how I feel later on
Yeah I agree. I just want to build healthier habits and lifestyles. Maybe I’ll progress to a max a 5 days/week
I believe that when you're trying to get back into lifting it's better to reduce your work load and go 5 or 6 times a week. This way you build a habit and the work load
isn't so much that you dread it or spend alot of time there. From there you reduce your frequency in the gym based on your goals
[deleted]
[deleted]
you may be lactose intollerant. try an isolate whey :)
Thanks for the reply, I’ll definitely look into it. I’ve been sticking to the cheaper brand and have had a bit of an upset stomach, but I assumed it was just my
increased protein intake.

I’ll try the other brand and see if it makes any difference. Cheers, thanks again for the help!
Thanks for the reply, I’ll keep an eye out for that as well. Taking a look at the protein I’ve got, it’s got sucralose so maybe I’ll give a more natural brand a try. Cheers!
I guess GW3 is the Galaxy Watch 3. Isn't it a bit bulky especially to wear during sleep, which also tracked by it?
I am playing with the thought of buying (well renting as you have to pay for every month) a Whoop, but I am not sure if I would stick with it and if the results are
anything I can use in my fitness or daily life. That is why I ask for other people's expierences.
Stretching is pretty much useless, apart from for feeling good (and increasing flexibility, but lifting is just as good at this)
Rd is? :)
gotcha thanks!
wait actually sorry for saying “gotcha” but whats the name of a doctor or someone who does that? personal trainer?
yeah i might be eating too much salt and veggies.
gotcha!
Awesome. One more question: for the angle of the bench I have heard 30 degrees is best and that 15 is best. Is it a preference thing or is one better than the
other?
There's a video of Ronnie Coleman doing lat raises with 20 pound dumbbells. Like you said, on little muscles, you don't need big weight to grow and light weights
probably prevent injuries. So many people on Youtube tear a bicep trying to curl big weights.
That makes sense about what phase the lift starts on

And lmao, no chance I’m at the point where I’m doing pause reps
Awww seems like I fucked up then! Rip me and my wallet. I'm going to try mixing it with eggs or something.

Thanks for the answer though :)
Hadn't thought of that but it sounds like a good solution to my problem. Thank you for the suggestion !
Haven’t heard of it, I’ll check it out, thanks!
2 of those then deload week then 351 fsl anchor ( skip amrap on 5s week)
It is my plan and there's no way around it. The other day I was wondering about the physiology of muscle memory vs. newly recruited muscle tissue so that's where
to question is coming from. The story is to try and put my question in context because I couldn't word it properly in order to make sense (english not being my first
language).

And I agree with your suggestion, but in the past I did not try to correct it because of such advice and realized a lot later that I had a forward shoulder, overactive
trap and bigger tricep both on the right side. So continuing lifting like that indefinitely with the mentality of "it will even out eventually" would probably have brought
some issues eventually.

Thank you though, it is appreciated!
Like others posted, I know we can't be perfectly symmetrical, but I did have a side sticking out. Came to realize my whole rib cage was slightly twisted to the right,
so I don't think it's the same thing you're talking about, but might give the same impression.

My shoulder was definitely pulled forward though, 100%. I sit at a computer all day and have been for a long time. The pec minor on the right was much more tight
than the left and gave me some issues with the right shoulder blade.

Thanks for the info!
Thanks for the video, will give it a watch later on.

I agree for the most part, and tbh it's not about what others see, or might think. At first I did not care, but there came a point where my shoulder blade would hurt
and that's where it all started, noticing a pattern on my whole right side that if not addressed, would not fix itself. My point of view is, being relatively new to
weightlifting (close to two years, so nothing impressive), in case of poor posture due to bad habits, I'd rather fix that first and then if imbalances come up, just accept
that's how my body is and move on.

I work in front of a computer all day and jumped into weight lifting like it would solve all my problems. I know it's not the intent, but if I was new to lifting again and
heard or read that it's ok, don't worry, the body will adapt, I'd probably just put mobility work aside and think to myself it'll all fix itself in the end. To some it might
work, but not everybody. I digress, but I think there's a line between overanalysing symmetry and just not caring about signs your body tells you.

That said, I appreciate the reply, thanks!
Right but how long until I see results? 1 month, 3 months, etc.?
I made one myself but I feel like I hit the ceiling with progress lately. I wake up and do 100 pushups and about 300 situps. Then I bench 40 lbs dumbbells 4 sets of
twelve (full range of motion). After this I curl the same weight around the same amount of sets and reps. I also run and cycle a lot and my diet is as clean as
possible.

I also train for kickboxing every day on top of this with some more calesthenics and resistance bands. But I only trained to get fit as possible for martial arts and
didn’t focus on getting big. If you have a good plan I’d appreciate it
Thanks for your reply
Should i retract my scapulas? In any video ive seen i think he does not retract them
Interesting, thanks alot
Thanks!

I mean having a range of where I am going to be helpful just so I can internalize what I’m seeing in the mirror. Really my (superficial) goal is to see abs at some
point and then start exploring bodybuilding techniques and see how I like it.
The 3 in-accurate measurements are a technique from data assimilation principals that basically reduce the error/ increase confidence in an observation.

As for the body I’m right on the border of Medium to Large frame.
True, but I didn't even manage a single set. It feels really weird when I'm able doing 5x3 on 45 kg.
Isn’t the arch just creating a slight decline to get your torso in the correct anatomical position to move more load/prevent injury? Couldn’t that be replicated by just
decline benching at a decline that mimics the arches angle?

I guess my question is if flat benching is worth it as a separate exercise if we have to make tons of adjustments to make it end up looking like decline bench
anyway (if the person doesn’t arch their back - maybe that changes things - that’s why I mentioned in the case the person has a relatively significant arch)
Of course I have that. I have bike computers and a swim watch that connect. Strava doesn't seem to track weight training. Was hoping to have weight, fitness, and
weight training in the same place but doesn't look like that is a thing yet.
There's a consensus on stuff that is bad and there is a consensus on what's good. You can't determine what is the best for everyone because we aren't all the
same. Your program needs to involve compound movements and progressive overload as a beginner.
Maybe shin splints? Where do you feel the pain? Thats definately a lot to start off with, I would look into how to increase your weekly mileage properly or else you
might get an overuse injury
I never scheduled my trainings like this. So my advice would be useless, though it’s wise to aim for consistency over volume so you’re on the right path. Maybe
someone with a similar schedule could help you more. Good luck bud you’re definitely gonna keep this gains don’t worry
Volleyball isn't necessarily the same as strength training. Only lifting heavy requires 24+ hours of recovery. For example, you can run everyday and be perfectly fine
because this isn't putting the same stress on the legs as pointed exercises like weighted squats, for example.
Frogger runs are the only thing that make me feel alive anymore…
If you aren't going to compete in a weight class sport, and you don't feel miserable, then keep going.
If you aren't happy with your appearance and normal activities are an issue, cut back
I think that's a good plan.
If you're 5'9 and only 160 you probably wanna keep bulking so you have more muscle mass for when you do cut.
Honestly, just slow bulk. As long as you're training hard and getting enough protein you won't gain a ton of fat and you'll put on much more muscle mass.
I don’t think it really matters that much.

And anyway, 15-18 is still pretty high rep.
If you're 207 and not on steroids it's probably fat.

If it isn't, I'd work on your back chest and shoulders so you look more proportional
As long as you are getting proper rest, you’re prolly good
Nope! You want to keep your booty down unless you’re doing bridge press
Not weird at all.
Cutting and bulking is the most efficient way to both lose fat and put on muscle, especially if you do it correctly.
Cut and bulk is pretty much always the answer, unless you're competing in a sport with weight classes and you're near the limit. Otherwise cutting and bulking
simply is more effective.
Thanks, it was an excellent watch! Definitely gave me food for thought.
I can't critically evaluate those claims, but my experience so far on this sub has led me to be skeptical of people's claims of muscles not activating and having large
muscle imbalances.

If you feel like you have an imbalance I would do some unilateral hamstring isolation, such as one leg hamstring curls.

As far as targeting quads and glutes, I would just recommend a variety of lower body exercises. Conventional deadlift, RDL, trap bar deadlift, low bar squat, high
bar squat, front squat, lunges, etc all target the muscles slightly differently. Choose several of those that feel good to you and work on them. You can switch out an
exercises every few months. If you do a variety of such movements, you will be developing your hamstrings, quads, and glutes and you don't need to worry about
one being overactive.
The human body is not symmetrical. This is not something that needs to be remedied.

If a muscle feels tight, stretch/foamroll it.
I'm not hearing any pain or discomfort in that self-diagnosis. Are you 100% certain that this is a problem that needs to be fixed?
might just be overuse so you could cut back on volume a little but if you're directly looking for exercises that help with forearm strength the things you stated would
be fine or reverse curls would help, or even those grip trainer things where you just squeeze it, you could do that whenever and wouldn't need to be in the gym and
shouldn't be enough resistance to hurt you.
It sounds like it's significantly affecting the exercises you can do.

A theraband flexbar with appropriate exercises fixed my medial epicondylitis fairly quickly.
I've explored that but it just seems to be the actual quality of whey itself. I've found a few that don't seem to give me any adverse effects so I'm happy but it's
something to consider for others if they are looking to get into protein for sure.
I used to wear it during my sleep, but I no longer do. Mainly because I don't need to know how bad I slept :p

Other than that it's not clunky at all. You get used to having the watch on.
Probably Registered Dietitian
Registered Dietician.
Psychologist
Both will hit the chest, upper chest, and shoulders. The difference between 15 and 30 will be a slightly greater emphasis on either chest or shoulders, but the
difference is small.
Just don't go above ~40 if you want to prioritize your chest.
30 should hit upper chest and shoulders more

With db press as accesories I either do 30 on bench day or flat on ohp day
Agree with the comments about bench angles - higher will get the front shoulders more involved, vs lower which takes out the shoulders and shifts focus to the
upper chest. 30 seems to be the 'sweet spot' for incline pressing that most people prefer, although others say 15 hits the chest better (though involving the mid-
chest as well I guess). Experiment with what feels better for you
You can do pause reps at any stage, just lower the weight.
It's a minor fuck up, at worst. It isn't any worse than anything else results wise. Just suffer through it then try something else.




And it certainly isn't a popular opinion here, but if you were to comb through some of the more "hardcore" fitness and bodybuilding message boards, you'd find
some opinions that it is better than other forms of protein. Look up liquid beef aminos lol. I'm not weighing in either way, just passing on what I've read.
I second that recommendation. Start light, you're going to be moving lighter weight than you expect or are used to, but if you stick with the program 5/3/1 will give
you consistent progress over a long period of time.

Once you finish the cut, 5/3/1 BBB is an incredible mass gaining program.
In the video he talks about how it's not necessarily the imbalance that causes the pain. Maybe you are just pushing too hard. Are following a program?

I can't really help you, but I see no reason to think that you have successfully identified the culprit. You might have pain for all possible reasons. The nocebo effect
causes you to feel for pain where you expect it and you find it because we are always in some amount of pain. I don't know your situation but that is quite a typical
situation.
When I get into running, my times generally improve every other run. Cardio improves fast and also disappears fast when you don't use it.
No one could possibly answer this for you. Just keep at it and you will see gradual improvement.
I would check out the bodyweight fitness routine in the wiki, there's progression schemes built into it.
I'm not sure. I've never done them myself. Retracting your scapula makes your upper body more stable while benching but I feel like listening to your body is always
the best way to go. If it hurts when you retract but not when you dont retract, then dont.
You can just have bad sessions, it happens
Just follow the program and do the 6x2 next time, could be an off day
So now you're talking about a 'slight' decline. This is what I'm talking about. Unless you pin down an actual definition here, we're going to be talking past each other.
Because the the decline bench, is not a 'slight' decline. And a 'slight' decline from an arch does not imply a 'relatively significant' arch to me.

And a normal, shoulder-sparing, tension generating arch is not what I would call 'a ton of adjustments' nor do I think it is comparable to a decline bench.

You can do whatever you want, of course, but if decline was the easy way out here for comparable results, we'd all be talking about decline benching.
Thighs and calves and yeah I guess so. I wanted gains so bad that I didn't even consider any of it.
Yeah true, so would it work fine with volleyball on saturdays and then strength training later in the day?
I see, thank you
thanks for replying!
I bought 5kg of it so it's going to be some time before I can quit it, lol.

Honestly I just did a quick Google search before coming to reddit, so I'll definitely look up "liquid beef aminos" and see what comes up.

Thanks for answering!
Sounds like a good plan to me, any specific calorie deficit I should be aiming for or is ~500 good?
Can you recommend me one? That place is a maze on my phone
Thank you very much sir
Okay fair enough, I should have been more specific. To clarify, I’m just comparing a flat bench where you are purposely arching (getting into position) vs a decline
where I put a plate under the front of the bench to create a slight decline and not needing to adjust much at all. I have been doing the latter for the last few months
instead of flat and have liked it a lot. Just wanted to check if I’m missing out on anything really by not flat benching or if I’m just confirming my own bias that they’re
essentially the same thing.
Ya think about how you wouldn’t jump into bench pressing daily and if you did you would start with super low volume. Running is incredibly high impact and takes a
while for your bones and tendons to adapt. Just take it slow and progressively increase. Going hard daily wont make you progress when you have to take 3 months
off for an injury
Sure, I think so. You may be tired because of the cardio though but best way to see how you hold up is to give it a try.
500 is good, that is about a pound a week of fat loss. Is this your first time cutting? If so, this is what I recommend.

For your TDEE (calorie maintenance) calculation, use this: https://www.sailrabbit.com/bmr/

The little [?] boxes around the site offer explanation as to the concepts involved and how they are weighed in the calculation, and some history on the research and
science that went into it. I found it enlightening.

Particularly, activity levels. They are poorly defined and easy to overestimate. Weightlifting is not the kind of exercise being described by those activity levels, and
using them that way will leave you massively overcalculating your intake.

According to Harvard Health, 30 minutes of weightlifting burns around 120 calories. If you lift weights 5x a week for about 45 minutes, we're talking about 1000
calories spread out over a week.

If you are an average sized male using the "Exercise 4-5 times a week" category, it will move your daily intake from about 2100 at sedentary to 2700. That's 4200
calories over the course of a week. Pretty big difference right?

So, set your activity level to sedentary and add on a day to day basis, based on what activity you do. If it's just weightlifting, add 150~ or so. The +/- 25 calories
doesn't really matter so don't worry about it. If you do running/walking, use an online running calorie calculator.

Sorry for the large text of unsolicited advice, but it was a big mistake I made early on, because I was doing a 6x/week PPL routine so I figured 4-5x a week was a
very safe estimate. After all, I was doing exercise 6 times a week. So I "cut" at 2100~ calories based on the idea that I had a 2700 calorie TDEE, and I lost basically
no weight at all, and I set the expectation early on that I could still eat that much and lose weight, which made it harder to accept that I needed to be down at 1700
or lower to lose weight as fast as I wanted to.
250-500 calorie deficit is a solid range to use. 500 is pretty typical.
Even 300 is ok. Depending on how fast u want to and actually can deal with.

Like if u fail the program then up the cals a bit and/or trim the workload
https://www.reddit.com/r/bodyweightfitness/wiki/kb/recommended_routine/
You're welcome!
I don't think they are the same thing. Similar in most ways, yeah. But if you're digging on it and making the progress you want to make, then it feels weird to me to
say you're doing it wrong.
Oh thank you for the tip.
TDEE calculators are a guestimate. They help you identify a starting target, but they aren't going to get it exactly right.

IMO if you are really trying to zero in on nutrition, you gotta take a few weeks to figure it out. Start with your TDEE, weigh yourself daily, then at the end of the week
look at your trend. Adjust calories up or down, do another week. You should be able to zero in on your actual TDEE quickly enough, then use that as the base for
cutting or bulking.

Also keep monitoring your weight, your TDEE can shift a bit over time. Mine has increased by 300 cal/day over the past year as I've gotten fitter, built muscle, and
increased by workout intensity.
Cool. Thanks man, appreciate your thoughts
Yes, I agree, averaging your weight weekly is a great way to track changes.
**Welcome to the Tri-Annual Protein Megathread**

This thread is for sharing your favorite brands of protein, whether it be because they're delicious, cheap, high quality, or gave you great service.
Cellucor Molten Chocolate is my all time fave.
unico nutrition makes the best tasting protein powders i’ve ever tried. they’re probably not the cleanest and i don’t think all of the flavors are vegan, but their oreo,
banana, and chocolate cake flavors are SO tasty.
The only three powders I’ve tried from Optimum Nutrition have been chocolate peanut butter, cookies and cream, and normal chocolate. It may be recency bias
since I just got the chocolate peanut butter, but it blows the other two away in terms of flavor. It’s seriously delicious. I pop it in the blender with like twelve ounces of
2% milk so I get both whey and casein.
Dymatize ISO 100 chocolate is really good and easy on sensitive stomaches. Also tried Kaizen Isolate Vanilla and it’s not as bad as the other fake-vanilla tasting
ones out there.
Has anyone else just accepted that it gonna taste like shit for you and you should just get it down you as quick as possible?
Muscle Feast. No artificial sweeteners and you can feel good about quality control. Really wish there was something comparable because their flavors are boring as
hell.
Just switched from gold standard naturally sweetened to levels. Have been using ON gold standard for many years now since it is hard to beat the quality/value
ratio(imo), especially since I ditched artificial sweeteners. The ingredient list is nearly the same except levels uses sunflower instead of soy lecithin (thinking the soy
may have been messing with my histamine intolerance)and doesn't contain zanthan gum etc. Priced almost exactly the same as ON too. Really good stuff, I like the
cold brew which has 60mg caffeine per scoop as well the regular chocolate.
Isopure. Vanilla, Chocolate, and Cookies & Cream are all good. Not overly sweet & doesn’t taste fake. I look forward to them even with water, but when I want it to
be fancy I’ll mix it with Fairlife Whole Milk
Sprouts vegan protein powder, vanilla flavor

I've run into 2 problems with protein powder:
1. Rough on my digestive track
2. Taste like crap

This is the first protein powder I can easily digest, and the vanilla flavor is fairly light so I can mix it with anything to change the taste.
truenutrition /thread
Whey upsets my stomach, so I've always used Orgain from Costco.. rarely see it mentioned here though. I really like it.
PB Fit - IMO the best vegan protein out there, it's literally just peanuts, but tastes much better than any other vegan protein. Macros aren't amazing, but I eat mostly
whole foods and I like how there's nothing weird mixed in it.

I'm only using pescience and using it in baking recipes. The snickerdoodle has been really good for apple cider protein donuts. The pumpkin pie flavor is going to
be pumpkin spice donuts, pancakes, and cinnamon rolls for a few months ahead now, too.

Can also use the vanilla, chocolate, or cinnamon roll for oatmeal. Ive used all three of those in air fry oatmeal and top it off with a protein/Greek yogurt sauce
I use MET-Rx Natural Whey, I was using Optimum for years, until they changed their formula and added a ton of stuff on it. Been on Met-Rx for a while now. its
protein powder, it tastes alright mixed with oatmilk. doesn't taste that great with water.

I often will mix it with PB, oat milk, and a banana. Damn good meal, although the calorie count clocks in a touch high.
Vegan/Vegetarians/Non Dairy people, rejoice:

I'm a big fan of Orgain Simple Organic Plant Based protein power. No fake sugars, every ingredient is understandable/readable/whole. Chocolate is the best, but
vanilla is good too.

20g/150 cals

I make my smoothies with 2x scoops of orgain, 1 tbsp Chia Seeds, 1 banana, almond milk & ice. My poops and farts are unaffected and agrees with my SOs
sensitive stomach as well.
Any recommendations for a 12 year old? Something they’d drink often and not low calorie — he needs the calories.
Barbell Medicine Whey-RX. The vanilla does the trick 90cals for 21g of protein. It's the closest I've ever found to pure protein. I am lactose intolerant and have have
0 issues with this stuff.
Does there exist a vanilla whey flavor that doesn't taste like way, way too sweet birthday cake? I've tried damn near every brand and it feels like the manufacturers
are hell-bent on shoving as much artificial sweetener as they can to get that straight-from-the-extract-bottle flavor.
Is buying 1000 disposable Styrofoam cups the only alternative to having to religiously clean multiple shakers until I die?

Perhaps it's my bad brain chemistry kicking in but I'm at a loss for alternatives
Pro tip: no matter how good the reviews are of a flavour/protein powder, GET SAMPLE PACKS. Nothing worse than ordering 11 pounds of whey that tastes fucking
awful.
Isopure zero carb is solid tbh, cookies and cream flavour.
Lately, i just can’t stand protein shakes (regardless of brand or isolate….and I’ve tried a bunch of them). I can get only halfway through before the taste makes me
nauseous (I’ve also tried different liquid “bases”, different milks, water, juice…veggie and non veggie, I’ve even thrown in some instant coffee grains to try to make
things a bit more bitter)

I’ve tried drinking them fast and I’ve tried it slow. Nothing seems to work.
Tried all of the PEScience's protein flavors and peanut butter cup is hands down the best one that they have.

Their cookies and creme one is too sweet for my taste
Momentous Essential Piedmont Chocolate. Grass fed Whey.
Dissolves well, tastes good with water, great with 2/3 water, 1/3 milk.
Expensive, disappointing customer support and long delivery times but I keep grudgingly going back, because it's that good.
Why is this thread in contest mode? I'd love to know what the general /r/fitness population thinks of a certain brand via most upvoted comment. Instead it's just a
mess of everyone shouting their fave brand. Kinda useless, no?
Nocturne by Infinity is an awesome bed time protein. If I’ve had an early dinner or am just still hungry it works great. Got tryptophan in it plus whey and casein
Kaged Chocolate and Kaged french toast.

You can mix either of these into low fat greek yogurt and it tastes amazing.

Not the best tasting/cheapest protein by itself, but I really appreciate the clean ingredient list.
My favorite right now is kaged muscles clean meal snickerdoodle. It's all isolate and has a great balance of protein, carbs and fats if you need some quick calories.
Does anyone have any tips for consuming unflavoured beef protein powder?

 I ordered it for the first time and it smells a bit, so I doubt I could drink it mixed only with water. Also if you have any suggestions for flavour I'll definitely try them as
soon as I finish the current bag.
there is a website that had a TON of protein analyzed before I believe was taken down by a bunch of lawyers but in short labdoor.com has a bunch of protein
powders analyzed for "best" rated. In the "old" days they had tons of proteins graded A-F but the C and below had fancy lawyers and threatened them and now they
have a far lot less proteins
I've really liked this IsoPure protein I got. It has fruity flavors so it doesn't feel as heavy as the traditional flavors. It's decently priced too, not super expensive!
Rivalus vanilla
-mixes well
-tastes good on its own
-tastes great in smoothies
Best casein for gainz while you sleep?
Nothing beats ON Vanilla Ice Cream in flavor, especially when you hate the chocolate flavor.
Vanilla whey isolate (lactose intolerant) mixed frozen berries and apple juice. If you've ever had an all berry bang from Boost Juice, this is the protein equivalent. I
actually really look forward to drinking it after my workouts
I recently found out that mozzarella contains a shit ton of protein so that was great! Also to me, Bulk has delicious whey protein for a great price (maybe even the
best price).
Better Body Whey Protein from the bulk section in WinCo. $7.38/lb, can get 5% off if you buy a 25 lb box. Per 26g serving: 1.5g fat, 2g carbs, 20g protein, 50mg
cholesterol, 45mg sodium, 100 calories.

It's boring and flavorless. I usually add a few tbsp of cocoa powder, or some vanilla extract, or a pinch of cinnamon (or a combo of those) and some drops of liquid
sucralose.
Isopure, 110 calories, 25g protein, and virtually no carbs. Mixes super easy too so no hassle when I’m making a blender-destroying shake. Cookies and cream
flavor>>>>
For Vegan products:
RAWSPORT Repair Elite Protein Powders and their mass gainer.
I'm still searching for a peaprotein isolat tho. Any ideas anyone?
My two favorite protein sources are
* 0% fat Skyr yogurt
* nonfat, dry curd cottage cheese

Both are 90% protein, delicious, filling, and they taste great mixed together with some frozen raspberries on top.
I've been hooked since I don't know when on Gold Standard Whey Double Rich Chocolate. Is there anything that rivals this GOAT flavour? I'm not tired of this
flavour, but I'm open to suggestion for atleast equally good if not better protons. Don't like experimenting too much because I buy 10lbs bags.

Please don't suggest MyProtein...
Post-Jym. I use mass gainer (chocolate). Tastes great and works well. Also use the pre-jym pre workout which works great
MTS Nutrition Machine Whey is my favorite brand with my current favorite flavor being PB Cookies and Cream. I purchase through [tigerfitness.com]
(https://tigerfitness.com)
Good stuff. I’m just getting in protein powders and creating, and I’m about try some of these. Thanks
Optimum Nutrition chocolate peanut butter whey protein. Also use their vanilla casein for smoothies. Casein is much thicker and digests much slower than regular
whey. I used to buy that super duper clean fancy whey that was like 100% whey and nothing else but honestly it’s too expensive. Even Optimum nutrition seems
overpriced to me, but that natural organic shit is ridiculous. No thank you.
Applied Nutrition critical whey chocolate flavour - blended with banana, peanut butter, oats, Greek yoghurt and full fat milk - pretty basic but delicious
BRINE YOUR CHICKEN. It makes a world of difference tastewise. Before you cook your chicken, put it in a ziplock bag with 1 tablespoon of salt for every pound of
chicken, then fill the bag with water. Wait one hour, then cook. You'll never go back once you start doing this.
Anyone have any recommendations for a whey/casein blend similar to PEScience?
I hate almost all flavored protein. I’ve been buying Cabot 100% Whey and recommend it highly. I use it like creamer. Any reason I should stay away?
Vegan protein: Garden of Life. It's pricy but it tastes good and it's easy to dissolve. Also has the lowest sodium of all the ones I've tried.
Love core nutritionals’ cinnamon French toast pro protein powder!
Atkins chocolate protein shake, sweet but not too sweet. Easy to mix in a drink and good to go with marmite and peanut butter sandwiches
Can't have whey and I'm skeptical of a lot of vegan protein/it also just kind of makes me feel shitty so I've switched to egg white.

Really like Gaspari's sea salt caramel flavor.
I bought the mass gainer from PhD recently. Only had it once so far and tbh, it's really hard to drink. It uses oats for carbs so, idk what you guys think, but I find it
really difficult to drink a shake with oats in it. That being said, it's 1100+ calories, 50g protein, 188g carbs, and only 6g sugar. Recommend suffering through it if
you're a hard gainer. They also do a whey protein that's 40g protein!
PVL Iso-Gold is my go-to right now. Has the exact same flavour profiles as Mutant (the best, IMO), but has slightly more protein per scoop, and probiotics.

And it’s often on sale here in Toronto! Can’t go wrong.
1. Optimum Nutrition Whey for powder
2. Fairlife whole or 2% milk for general use
3. Fairlife Core Power for on-the-go needs

#/Thread
Optimum nutrition casein at night. Whey in the morning. Seems to work out pretty well for me. Lasts a while too
Mentioned this previously but Fairlife milk is delicious, high in protein, and easy on the stomach.
Optimum Nutrition Mocha Cappuccino.

Cup of almond milk, 1-2 frozen strawberries, heaping scoop of peanut butter, tablespoon of milled flaxseed, dash of cinnamon powder, pour in just a little bit of
oatmeal, and a scoop of this. Blend it all together.

Tastes like a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup but better. Practically no sugar. Good amount of calories. Start everyday like this and it's amazing.
I've been on MyProtein for last 3 years. The Whey chocolate fudge is delicious and quite affordable. Mixes well with water, milk and my morning shakes
I recently went back to ISOPURE and i mix it in my smoothies for lunch. It doesn't drastically change the texture and it bumps my lunch up 25 grams of protein. No
regrets since making this change. I used Ancient Labs bone broth protien before this one and the pricing is just to ridiculous at this point
Been impressed with Huel's Complete Protein. But I'm a bit worried that it's too good to be true. I'm not a big fan of their super aggressive marketing and their other
products don't appeal.

21g Protein, 110 kcals, Vegan and includes the BCAAs and EEAs I need and it tastes good. Like better than a lot of whey powders I tried. Seems to be doing the
job in the gym. Hasn't set off any heinous bodily functions. Will probably get more.
Getting a bit of bad acne ever since I started using ON in May. Not sure if it’s the whey component or not.

Anyone had experience with acne after protein and can recommend anything else?
Big fan of PRO Jym. Mixes easy, tastes great and I've tried several flavors. Not at all chalky or gritty.
Any type 1 diabetics out there that can recommend a good protein that doesn’t spike blood sugar?
Just bought Ryse Cinnamon Toast and got their Peanut butter cup flavor half off and I have to say I’m impressed.


I don’t like to jump on a brand just because it’s trending, but it was a great deal so I figured why not.


Great flavor, if a little sweet, and has a better ingredient list imo than Syntha-6, which I normally use (I know it’s not the healthiest, but it just tastes so damn good).


It also blends well, it’s not gritty like some, but also doesn’t have that weird slimy consistency that some of the lecithinized protein powders have.


Idk if I’d get it at full price, but if you can find it on sale I’d definitely recommend.
Anyone use NAKED brand whey protein?
Alpha neon peanut butter cup was great for a while for me, check them out they also do a great pre work out (if you can stomach the taste). The protein though
tastes really nice like a Reeses cup, although price point is on premium end of the spectrum.

Cnp spooky toffee pudding is also in my rotation more like a sweet treat shake, enjoyable price point Isnt too bad either on sites like dolphin fitness
I like eggs!
[https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6363527/](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6363527/)

[https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/artificial-sweeteners-may-change-our-gut-bacteria-in-dangerous-ways/]
(https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/artificial-sweeteners-may-change-our-gut-bacteria-in-dangerous-ways/)

[https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2017.00487/full](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2017.00487/full)

&#x200B;

...and many, many more...

&#x200B;

Everyone should be aware that many of these protein supplements contain artificial sweeteners. There is a small, but burgeoning body of evidence that appears to
indicate that artificial sweeteners are far from benign, and may in fact cause real harm. I'm not a doctor or a nutritionist, but given the research I have seen about
this phenomenon, I will no longer ingest these products.

If consuming a protein supplement helps my strength gains, but is at the same time messing with my microbiiome in ways that impact general immunity; insulin
resistance; gut lining absorption (and even expansion). I have to ask the question: "Are these supplements with artificial sweeteners worth it in the near-long, or
long-term"?
Oblivion is great, not heavy and thick and comes in a bunch of flavors. (Also used by strongman winners, but that doesn't make it taste better, lol)
as far as protein powder, i use gold whey protein isolate. comes in different flavors (strawberries and cream is my favorite) low sugar, low carb. 25 grams of protein
in a scoop (i usually do two).

my favorite protein snacks are the quest brand. I’m really enjoying their chip line. they have lots of good flavors, that don’t even taste like protein. and it feels
“unhealthy” (being chips), but low carb, low sugar, 120 calories, and 20 grams of protein. they also have protein cookies. a bit higher in carbs, calories, and sugar,
but it’s a nice treat at the end of the day with 20 grams of protein.
[removed]
I've been taking 1 scoop gold standard mixed with a quarter scoop boost high protein meal replacement alongside a chicken breast as my post workout lunch for
ages now and I can't imagine ever getting tired of it
Wheybolic at GNC is elite, 90 calories per scoop with 20 grams of protein and the banana milkshake takes great.
Looking for one that won't bloat, won't feel like chalk scraping down my throat, or taste like splenda. Guessing...none of the above!
Anybody know a good protein powder that doesn’t aggravate their GERD/acid reflux?
Funny, just made myself a frittata (sp?). Couple of eggs, bit of whole milk, quality feta, mixed greens, mushroom and onion. Not bad!
I don't like protein products on the market. I prefer to supplement protein through beans and meat, which is more natural for me.
What do you guys think of Premier Protein?
My favourite brand of protein is X-tone whey protein, because it's the cheapest prices protein powder by gram of protein.

It tastes crap but I just suffer through it.

Maybe I should just switch, but it's £10.99 for 1kg, and it's 82g protein per 100g.
Dymatize ISO 100 fruity pebbles and vanilla:) only 110 calories for 25g of protein good when your on a cut and need to fit in some extra protein. Also just a good
quality protein powder
Has anyone a good recommendation that tastes good without artificial sweeteners?

I tried to switch off from super sweet protein powders, but I find myself taking way less protein in then, which totally defeats the purpose.
I haven't seen it mentioned yet but I'm a big fan of Allmax Isoflex. The flavor is pretty relaxed and easy to take with just water, I've tried just about all of them and
there are only a couple I would stay away from. The amino acid profile covers all bases pretty well too.
XXL Nutrition Perfect Whey, specifically banana.

Tastes good, it's quite cheap, independent tests show they didn't BS on the protein content.
My “go to” for protein for the last few years now has been On vanilla ice cream. Mixes with just about everything nicely as an alt to using flour, and tastes great!
Notable mention for Quest protein powder and bars; again great flavors and mix-ability!
USN Anabolic is the best gainer to ever grace the earth. Farts are mad though and the only nice flavour is Strawberry.
Been using Ketofeed from Purus Labs since my local grocery outlet put a bucketload of tubs on sale for $5.

The butter pecan flavor is amazing, but can't see how buying this for its normal price of $25 makes sense for 1.25 lb tub.
Dymatize iso100. All flavors are good. Mixes well, but can get foamy and is very sweet
I’ve been using ascent recently. 25g protein, 110 calories, no artificial sweeteners—uses monk fruit as a sweetener. Pretty short ingredient list. Made in the US and
third party tested. I’ve had the vanilla and the cappuccino. Mixed with water it’s ok, mixed with milk or 50/50 milk water it’s actually quite tasty—I like it better than
the naturally flavored ON.

Honestly makes me wonder if there’s a catch
What do the other Australians here get? I usually buy the Musashi High Protein. The chocolate one has 30.2g of protein at 175 calories and is usually on sale at
chemist warehouse
True Nutrition cold filtered whey isolate. Chocolate brownie flavor “heavy”. The salted caramel is good too, get standard flavoring with that one though, double is too
much. That chocolate brownie flavor is the best I’ve had.

Granite protein makes some of the tastiest proteins too. All their flavors are great (especially peanut butter). They are a blended protein with digestive enzymes
added.
I've run Syntha 6 shakes for years. It tastes amazing....maybe too amazing? The reason I am posting here is the inevitable other shoe to drop where someone more
knowledgeable tells me how secretly bad it is. It's ok. I'd rather know!
Anyone know how to make it mix up and not be so damn chunky? I even use a shaker bottle and still can't mix it all up.
Iso Mass Xtreme Weight Gainer for going on 7 years now.

It doesn't get any better for all around support
For Australia: can't beat BulkNutrients. By far the cheapest @ $23/kg and came top in the Choice report a few years back. Normally shows up the day after you
order it too
Does anyone have any input on Thorne supplements? I originally started using their products because they were sport tested/certified but they're pricey. Worth it?
Canadian Protein Whey Isolate is a great, cheap whey protein option for Canadians look to save on whey.

I have only tried their Banana Cream Pie flavour (not very good) and their Birthday Cake (good, but quite sweet). Nutrition is great and price can’t be beat honestly.
Love the Magnum Nutraceuticals Quattro Protein Powder.
Isopure Infusions - Citrus Lemonade. 20g of protein per scoop with 90 calories and it's a very light drink. Not at all thick like a normal protein shake and tastes great
Could anyone recommend a non-whey protein (vegan or otherwise) that they can vouch tastes good. Ive read that whey usually contains rennet derived from pigs
which is against my religion, so im looking for a protein powder that doesn't contain it. But the vegan protein shakes I've tried have not tasted good.
Greek yogurt, frozen blueberries, granola.

It's seriously my favorite food in general now
Anyone know any protein powders that are 100% flavourless? I want to add protein to stuff like water and milk and actually taste the drink. All the flavours I've tried
have that strange sweet but chemically taste like in diet cokes and zero sugar gum.
Allmax allwhey
Is gold standard good?
For New Zealand:

NZ Protein Pea Isolate - I used to use whey but found it bloated me way too much, lots of gas and it also didnt mix as well. Pea protein mixes super well and
doesn't bloat me. Its also tasty as hell. Lower fat than Whey concentrate and cheaper than Whey Isolate.
For people on a budget, egyptians, third-world countries especially (vegans too):-

**Peanuts and Lupin beans have a TON of protein and are extremely cheap in my country:-**

=26 grams of protein per 100 grams for Peanuts. Lots of calories however. (567 I think)

=36 grams of protein per 100 grams of raw lupin beans. (after soaking and whatnot, these 100 become somewhere between 200 and 300 I believe. Which is not
really a lot. And they are really delicious. Lower calories than peanuts. Not hard to prepare if you get the sweet version)

These can be really delicious as well in addition to the absurd amount of protein they have. easy \~200 grams of protein when you combine these with bread/pasta
+ fish/chicken + fruits (Gauva for example) + milk/dairy. I get those 190-200 with 0 supplementation (that shit is too expensive for me).

And the whole incomplete protein stuff is a myth, some are just higher in things than other things - so combining more than one source is going to be really good
especially when you pair them with other animal proteins.
do people actually *enjoy* their 'protein powder recipe shake' thing, or is it more that it's "good for a protein powder recipe" and not "simply actually good"

Personally I'm just getting used to chugging 2 scoops of whey mixed in water real quick before bed and being done with it
Axe and Sledge is great but pricier than other common options. I think it's worth it.
I know it’s a trendy one, but Ghost flavors are delicious. Chips Ahoy and Oreo are both great tasting. Their flavors across all their products are on point, but some
stuff like their pre workout just isn’t effective.
MuscleFeast.

The flavoring is way better than my protein or optimum imo. Less sweet but maintains a smooth taste.
I'm pretty much done with protein powders these days and use [Drinkable Egg Whites](https://www.eggwhitesint.com/product-category/liquid-egg-whites/) for my
post workout protein beverage.

I like mixing powder into yogurt to make a pudding, but for the most part I find powders on the market gimmicky and just not worth it compared to getting in a solid
meal. They're fine in emergency situations, but not meant to be a staple.
My Protein WheyIsolate chocolate smooth. Often on sale and rated highly
I used to be religious with myprotein cause it was cheap and I always got it in bulk.

This year I tried a more expensive brand ghost, and good god was it worth the higher price. I've tried their nutter butter and their chips ahoy, both flavors are
amazing. Tastes 1000% better than myprotein.

I'm not even sponsored, I always used to get myprotein cause it was cheap, and I still have around 30 lb of it. It's just a new discovery for me to try "luxury" brands
of protein. You're paying a lot more, but it actually tastes really good haha.
Any recommendations for vegan protein? All the ones I've tried are miserable.

I'm getting sick of the taste of whey in my protein bars too.

Any insight appreciated.

Thank you very much!
I still use myprotein. If you mix their chocolate smooth and marshmallow cereal flavors it tastes like count chocula, no joke.

I also like the gingerbread in a smoothie with blueberries and blackberries.
**Advice needed**

I'm currently using GOLD STANDARD 100% WHEY PROTEIN but I find it way too sweet and the vanilla ice cream flavor tastes way too artificial. It's nauseating to
me if I take more than 60g per day.

I've tried different kinds of milks (almond, regular, soy, oat, skyr yogurt) and recipes (shake or ice cream).

So far, the best I've found is a combination of oat milk and instant coffee to keep the sweetness at a minimum.

Can anybody recommend good brands of unsweetened whey from a website with Europe delivery (specifically France)?
I use Kaha Whey Protein, unflavoured
Lidl and Aldi have both been on fire lately with the high protein stuff here in Ireland (Granola, Yoghurt, Pudding & Icecream). It really makes hitting diet goals much
easier. I've a history of falling off the wagon with health/fitness targets, either through boredom or having other work/family commitments take priority. All these new
food options combined with calorie counting apps (I use MyFitnessPal) has made it much easier to stay consistent this time around.

Even though both stores sell different brands, I'm 100% sure they all come from the same factory as they taste identical and have identical nutritional value as well.

Edit: I should also add that the Linda McCartney veggie sausages/burgers are also delish. (I'm not a vegetarian, but I mix it up and maybe eat meat every 2nd or
3rd day). As for powders, Precision Engineered have a delish Pea/Rice protein. I used to hate any powder that wasnt whey, but this ones actually very tasty
ON gold standard. Going on more than 15 years. If it ain’t broke, why fix it.
-Optimum nutrition gold standard whey

-Bodytech Pro 24 -> Tastes pretty good, lots of flavors, and I can get it in person at the local Vitamin Shoppe.

-Fairlife 30g/150cal pre-mixed. Lactose free. Great to pack in a bag to take to work or something since it doesn't need to be refrigerated. They taste pretty okay, just
very...thin.

-Premier Protein premixed -> Also good, probably taste a bit better than fairlife/better texture, but not lactose free.

-Nutrasumma Fermented Pea Protein -> Unflavored tastes like dirt, but vanilla is pretty good. Good protein to calorie mix for a vegan powder.
Bodybuilding Depot Professional protein nuts-cookies.
Super tasty and 60% casein 20% egg and 20% whey
(which they say is a pretty useful combination)
The Protein Works - Soy Protein Isolate - Chocolate Peanut Cookie
is literally my holy grail vegan protein. ~200 calories, 52g Protein for 2 scoops. Chuck in 500ml Oat milk and you're looking at ~460 Calories, 65g Protein in 1
shake. 2 of those a day make it so easy to get vegan protein!

Tastes fantastic.
Fairlife nutrition plan. Tastes like chocolate milk and I would still drink it if it had no protein. 150 cal for 30g protein. A bit expensive but you can buy in bulk from
Costco
I use grass fed whey protein, unflavored, tastes fine to me in a shake w frozen berries, bananas, oat milk and and nuts ​♂️
Dymatize ISO 100 Hydolized Whey - **Fudge Brownie** is the first protein powder that I've decided to stick to permanently because I find the flavor absolutely
perfect!

110 calories and 25g of protein good for low carb cutting is perfect and It's high quality.

Their vanilla is excellent too and a great staple if you like mixing with other flavored foods.

&#x200B;

edit: I mix the Fudge Brownie protein with fat free greek yogurt and a dash of unsweetened almond milk for the perfect smoothie!
Orgain protein in either chocolate or vanilla. You can get it at target. The vanilla is excellent in smoothies, the chocolate is literally the only protein I’ve ever been
able to mix up and drink straight without gagging. It tastes like brownie batter!
[deleted]
Just got levels vanilla whey concentrate and it’s great. Good price, good ingredients (whey, vanilla extract powder, monk fruit extract, and stevia), and it tastes
amazing especially in smoothies
I’m looking for a low sodium, non-dairy protein. This rice protein I’m taking now just tastes like dog water
has anyone tried the chocolate whey protein powder from baked nutrition? seems promising but $90 is a lot when I’m not sure
Steak.
Honestly I just cycle through protein powders not to get bored (so if you have any req's give me a drop)

Three most recent:

Optimum Protein Powder: Big sizes available, tastes decent, mixes decent with a blender bottle

Combat Powder: Tasted better than the above, pricey, big sizes available

Syntha Six: A little on the sweet side for me, pricey, big sizes available, mixes like fucking magic
Here's something slightly different - anyone have any recommendations on a high protein snack that comes in around 100 calories?
I have two separate recommendations


—


**Kirkland Protein bars**

Cheap (under $1.25 each)

190 calories, 21g protein

Only 2 grams added sugar

Tastes okay…

—


**Silk Ultra milk**

Cheap (half gallon should be under five bucks)

160 calories, 20g protein

Tastes good
What protein powder is the best for baking and other homemade protein goodies? I’m done paying for overpriced protein bars and I really enjoy making healthier
versions of desserts and such. Whey, caesin, pea…just not sure
Not sure if this is allowed, but pork butt in an instant pot is an absolute hack for quick and easy protein.
Optimum Nutrition- the one in the bags at Costco. I also enjoy the Kirkland protien bars (taste like the Metrx bars I used to love in the early 2000's)
Body fortress, any flavor but especially chocolate
Is RAW protein worth it?
Icelandic yogurt, spinach, banana, carrot, orange juice, flax seeds, hemp seeds. 36g protein, 700 calories
For those in Japan: SAVAS rich chocolate whey protein remains my favorite . It's so good.
Jym, Redcon1 & Nutricost casein. Best brands for protein & no protein spiking
[deleted]
Their coco pebbles has me hooked currently
>Kaizen

While I miss my DNS Strawberry (Japan-only), Kaizen's vanilla is quite good (once you get used to it) and the price is right. Their Chocolate isn't bad either (I
usually have it with a banana)
I spent a while like that. Buy more expensive protein. It's unreal the difference.

I've been using the Revolution Maple donut flavour for my post workout meal and it's honestly delicious.
If you mix with water, no doubt. I mix my protein powder with unsweetened almond milk and it makes for a more enjoyable drink
Buy some optimum nutrition. It tastes way better than the cheap stuff. Bodytech Pro 24 is also pretty good if you have a Vitamin Shoppe near you.

Edit: Also consider mixing in some sort of milk, makes them taste better than water.
On optimum whey or whatever it is at Costco tastes really decent ngl mix in a little chocolate syrup if you can and it’s even better
I used to think so as well but then I started using oat milk (2.8% fat) instead of cow milk and it surprisingly tastes good!
I thought this from like, 2011-2016.. buy better protein! I look forward to my shakes now.

Used to just buy Body Fortress from Walmart & choke it down.. using Dynamatize and look forward to my shakes now. Worth the $.
For taste Dymatize Iso 100 is one of the best I've had.
I buy mine unflavoured and make it into a fruit and avocado smoothie (with various seeds etc)

I’m a fussy eater and it really helps!
Synths 6 actually ain’t bad. It’s a bit sweet, so I use a little more than a cup of milk per serving to dilute it a bit, but the overall flavor is pretty bomb.


The downside is ingredient wise it’s definitely not the best, high in calories, not the best protein content.


I just got a couple tubs of Ryse on sale and I’m pretty impressed. Ingredients seem good (although that’s probably not saying much based on my usual protein lol),
and the taste is pretty damn good, I’m not dreading drinking it the way I used to years ago when I was buying ON.


Definitely pricey though, I haven’t decided if I’ll get more when I run out.
I use a Ninja blender. Add skim milk, blueberries, powdered peanut butter, then either vanilla or mocha flavoured protein. I really really enjoy it. It is how I start and
end my day. I look forward to it each time and it helps me avoid calorie dense foods I may otherwise snack on.
Big fan of Isopure. That ingredients list is nice too
Egg white protein has been a lot easier on my stomach than any vegan protein I've tried, also more bio-available.
Just out of curiosity, did you ever try a Whey Protein Isolate vs just regular Whey Protein?
I'm lactose intolerant and I'm golden with Dymatize Hydrolized whey - Gourmet Chocolate is amazing!
I ran into that same issue, but I didn't have issues when I switched to isolate for some reason
Idk if it’s worth the price for you if you can’t find find it on sale, but I just got Ryse and was pretty impressed. A lot of whey products bloat me, but I found I was
feeling pretty good after 2 scoops of it.


Possibly the digestive enzymes and fiber that’s added? It also helps that I was pretty impressed with the flavor, and I am INCREDIBLY picky with protein flavors.
I’ve used the Orgain brand from Costco for years. When it’s on sale I stock up! The price really can’t be beat.
What are you talking about with Optimum changing their formula and adding stuff? I assume you’re talking about optimum nutrition gold standard, correct me if I’m
wrong. I like it, but if they’re changing things I would like to know.
MetRx used to taste great but they changed it and now it tastes awful IMO. Honestly thought it actually tasted like a vanilla shake before.
Adding to this: the foodspring vegan powder is also pretty nice, if you like the slight taste of chickpeas.
Chocolate milk and ice cream. Only half joking.
Peanut butter, chocolate, and banana milkshake
Every body is different and I obviously don't know the details here.. but, generally, a 12 year old doesn't need just protein dumped into their system. Kid is
going/about to go through the largest natural hormonal shift in their life.. Focus on teaching them healthful nutrition and exercise habits to facilitate their needs, not
"eat this calorie bomb".

-former scrawny teenager/"hardgainer"
Fairlife makes pretty good high protein shakes - about 25g protein and 170kc per shake, can throw in some oats, peanut butter, or even a scoop of protein powder
with it too if trying to bump up Kc intake.

Or just get a protein powder and some whole milk. Would definitely say just have them eat more whole foods, at 12, I wouldn't worry too much about intake (unless
it's just junk intake) especially if you are worried about kc.
You probably want mass gainer or meal replacements. Not straight protein is the goal is meeting cals.
Fairlife milk. 13g protein 80-160 calories per cup (depending on fat)
Just wash your cup, don’t create extra waste just because you don’t want to. It takes like 10 seconds
Why not just… you know…wash your reusable shaker cup after using it?
This dude proteins.
Absolutely. Dumb af. No comments get prioritized, so there aren't any threads for discussion.
Kaged is expensive but it is good stuff. Their “iced lemon cake” is great
Labdoor is still a thing.
I’m willing to bet MP was one of the C and below that went after them. That Cory dude was extremely sensitive.
I just looked on Labdoor.com and none of the protein I'm taking (Syntha 6 and Carnivore) is rated, meaning it's trash and they probably threatened to have them
taken off!

SMH I'm not buying those anymore.
used to do the ascent casein which was very good but like once or twice a week i had to wake up in the middle of the night to poop
Second this
I love Bulk pea protein isolate. Mixes well and the price is great. Plus the packaging is more eco friendly than most
Check out TrueNutrition. They allow custom protein blends and the price is good. I get their vegan protein optimizer blend which includes pea protein.
>nonfat, dry curd cottage cheese

You belong in prison
Skyr is wonderful and has hella high protein for the volume. Probiotics are a plus too!
Why non fat
Same brand, extreme milk choclate
Cookies and Cream is good. If you blend with anything strong-flavored (like pb) u won’t notice flavor, either.
Chocolate Mint.
Rocky Road
In my opinion optimum nutrition hasn't been top dog in flavor for a while, most iso 100 flavors I've tried are really good particularly cinnamon bun, musclesport has
good flavors, ghost oreo was good
Don't lynch me: GNCs Wheybolic 60 Chocolate is the best tasting protein on the planet.
Their mocha flavor is good but double-rich chocolate is the goat as you said.
My only complaint about their preworkout was that it made my breath HOT. I loved it though. It wasn’t a huge burst of energy followed by a crash 45 minutes later.
Lemo cheesecake flavour, dats it der lad
Dude I've been doing this and it's a GAME CHANGER for chicken breast. I don't think boneless skinless thighs need it as badly due to their fat content
You actually don't even need to fill the bag with water. You can "dry brine" and basically just salt your chicken, I'd suggest going at least 4 - 8 hours though, this
allows the salt to draw out some moisture and then for the chicken to reabsorb that moisture. It's almost a necessity for pork and works well on steak too
I get one of those meal boxes currently and I think they do this, the chicken comes in little vacuumed sealed bags covered in liquid. The chicken is never dry and
I'm not cooking any different from when I used to buy my own breasts at the store.
For a super quick brine, I drop a chicken breast into a ziploc back and pour some pickle juice in.

Combine with pounding the breast with a meat tenderizer for an even thickness and it’s juicy and perfect.
Just tried this because I saw your comment and holy hell it’s so much better. And it was so easy.
Can this be done for longer periods of time? Would overnight be way too long or could that work as well?
[deleted]
Fish sauce + Thai light soy + water is my go to. Umami to the max
I do 1/4 cup per liter/quart of water for brine and brine exactly an hour - longer can make it too salty.

Makes the cooking way more forgiving too. Accidentally get the chicken up to 170+? Still tender and juicy
I haven't been able to find anything that is exactly as good as PEScience but Quest Powders and Robert Irvines are both blends that are similar.
Try granite supplements - they’re proteins are excellent and they’re a blend.
Just got a tub in and so far so good
I bought mass gainer once when I first started lifting, and honestly just skip it man. I wasn’t a huge fan of oats either, but if you get oat flour instead that might help,
it’s much finer than you could blend yourself in a blender. A quarter cup of that, 4 tablespoons of peanut butter, plus your protein powder in 2 cups of whole milk and
you’re looking at an easy 970ish calories, for WAY cheaper and healthier than any mass gainer I’ve seen.


It’s been 10 years and I still gag remembering the taste of the ON mass gainer I got lol.
PVL is excellent, I switch between that and Rivalus Rival Whey depending on which one is cheaper at Popeye's
I believe fairlife is the company that was surrounded in scandal on animal abuse, ironic given their name.
This is intriguing. IMHO spinach can be added to any peanut butter smoothie without catastrophe.
Umm can't wait to try this. I've been considering getting this Optimum Nutrition flavor next and this just sold me on it.
And they always have deals going on
Except that recently, at least in the US, their stocks seems to be severely limited (not as many flavors of protein and ALWAYS OUT OF FLAVDROPS)
Chocolate brownie is delicious, too. Add ice, frozen bananas, and peanut butter for a shake that rivals Jamba Juice peanut butter moo’d for a fraction of the
calories.
I've ordered two flavors till now, Rocky Road and Chocolate brownie and both of them mixes pretty badly. lots of big lumps. Don't know its the flavor or the stock
that's bad. Rocky road tastes amazing tho.
I'll back Isopure as most of the flavors I've tried taste good, not heavy carbs, 100 calories for 25 grams of protein. It also dissolves really well in very little water.

Cookies and cream tasted like ass though. Salted caramel was pretty good.
Ive been thinking of trying but damn the marketing is intense. I feel like it must be mediocre and trying to appeal to gen pop. Thanks for ur comment
Love Huel, drink their meal replacement shakes when I’m in a hurry for work.
Had the same issue- started using pea protein instead and it decreased. Also switched to almond milk in shakes instead of normal milk.
Have had many friends get skin issues on whey, lots of good non dairy reccs in this thread, good luck.

I see you're using water instead of dairy milk, but for taste/mix-ability I'd recommend almond milk (unsweetened!!) or similar
Its the dairy mate, switch to plant based if dairy bugs you. Some people get by fine with whey, others don't
I love ON, used it for years. Never had an acne issue due to the protein. Breakouts due to too much sugar, yeah.
Big fan of chicken. Egg whites mixed with eggs for some yolk flavor. Egg whites with parmesan make them more tolerable. If you don't mind the calories, eggs +
lean ham and veggies.

The Costco brand albacore tuna hardly tastes like tuna so thats nice. You can down a can for 40g of protein and 160 calories (0 carbs/fat) before bed or in the
morning.

93/7 ground beef or better. Drain fat when cooking. You could just salt it and eat it if you're uncultured like me, or add some taco seasoning and salsa (salsa very
low cal) and mix it with a bunch of lettuce and onions and shit and eat that. If you want more calories, use cheese/beans. If you want more calories, use low carb
wrap. If you want more calories, fuck the low carb wrap and make delicious burritos with whatever fillings you want.

Also, buy bread rolls from bakery, cut open, pluck out the bread so it is a hollow roll, fill with lean meat, bit of cheese, veggies. Mustard or ketchup if that is your
thing, I've been doing mustard.
Do you have any reccomendations for any whey protiens that do not contain artifical sweeteners?

Or, do most of them not? I'm a new haha
There is overwhelmingly not enough evidence to conclude that "artificial sweeteners are far from benign, and may in fact cause real harm". Most of the "evidence"
that shows impact on gut health are studies done on mice, which are innately not the same as humans. I will also admit I am not a nutritionist or doctor, however, I
feel like the logical conclusion is that consumption of artificial sweeteners in moderation (much like natural sweeteners) are unlikely to have significant negative
impacts on most people. People should try to get most of their dietary protein from whole food sources, but an occasional supplementary protein shake is not likely
to cause harm due to artificial sweeteners.
I recently tried and really liked huel's protein powder (not the meal shakes, they recently came out with an actual protein powder), thinking about switching to it as
my regular. Added bonus of being the first vegan powder I've ever tried that actually dissolves.
I recently tried and really liked huel's protein powder (not the meal shakes, they recently came out with an actual protein powder), thinking about switching to it as
my regular. Added bonus of being the first vegan powder I've ever tried that actually dissolves.
This was my problem, I really like Ascent Chocolate flavor, it uses monkfruit sweetener but to me doesn't taste like splenda (and I'm picky af), expensive though
$$$
The low carb shakes they sell at Costco are really an easy way to get your grams in
Second this one. Fruity pebbles is fantastic!
I used to eat Quest bars all the time, then a few years ago they changed, "improved", their recipes and I have not been able to touch it since.
I love ON Vanilla ice cream whey, too!

However, I recently had to cut out all dairy. ON has very low lactose in it, but I decided to cut it out for a few months to see if it was still messing with me (good
news - it wasn’t and I can use it again)

So during that period I tried ONs vanilla plant based protein. My first shake was bad. It tasted nothing like the whey and I thought I’d have to toss it. HOWEVER, I
added salt and cinnamon and it’s actually quite delicious now.

So, hack for anyone who can’t have the whey variety. The vanilla with added salt and cinnamon is pretty good.
Gourmet Chocolate is not too sweet. Vanilla on the other hand... sshhhesh!
What's your fav on your menu?
I get BSC Whey Protein Powder Chocolate. Tastes good in water and great in milk and I don't have to buy a giant barrel of it.

https://shop.coles.com.au/a/national/product/powder-chocolate-400g
I use Uprotein whey protein and whey isolate (for when you want max protein for your calories). The chocolate flavour is nicer to drink by itself than the vanilla, but
either go well when mixed in with porridge or yoghurt.

$110 for 4kg of whey protein or $129 for 4kg of whey isolate is about as good a price out there.
Hey mate, syntha-6 user here too. In terms of "clean" protein, it's pretty low on the totem pole (I don't recall the exact macros but it was something like 200 kCal /
15g carbs / 15g protein / scoop or something along those lines) Generally speaking if you're trying to get below 10% body fat those 15 carbs are pretty costly since
you're probably trying to stay below 100 in a day. Also, 40g of protein in a sitting is the goal (or the conventional wisdom anyways), so that's 2.66 servings, which
isn't great.

That said, it's the only shake I've been able to stick with long term due to taste and texture issues with others. It's clean enough if you're willing to toss in some extra
cardio.
Immersion blender is my go to. Quick and easy clean up and my cup has a measurement thing on the side.
I got a shakesphere and it really is amazing. It has no shake ball and mixes it better than any other bottle I've had. I'd recommend looking into it
They also don't contain emulsifiers, which are not the best for you. Especially if you have gastrointestinal problems like me.
I've been using their creatine for the last 5 months, and my butthole hasn't fallen out or anything, so that's a win.
Does it leave one of the weird after tastes though? I've had some bottled protein drinks like fruit punch and it left a dry mouth and weird after taste. Not repulsive but
not the greatest.
Nutrasumma Fermented Pea Protein powder, Vanilla flavor is okay. Haven't tried chocolate. Unflavored/unsweetened tastes like literal dirt.
Vega has good stuff. I like their chocolate for my peanut butter and coconut milk shakes. And vanilla for fruit/veg mixes.
Orgain is pretty solid taste wise. 21g protein and 6g fiber per serving. Plus they have it at Costco.
Naked Pea chocolate is good and has a good amino profile. I add a tsp of nestle hot chocolate mix because by itself the flavor is pretty meh since there's no added
sugar. With a little cocoa mix though it's at least as good as any whey.
I highly recommend olly chocolate protein powder, only non dairy protein I've had that does not taste like mulch.
I've been using huel's new protein powder recently and really liked it. It's vegan, dissolves well, and imo tastes good, mild, no strong artificial sweetener type flavors
I can vouch for the esn vegan options, I have both the soy protein isolate as well as the complex version and both actually taste great!
Interesting, I'm looking for a non-whey protein but because dairy flares up my acne. Hope more options come out.
Eryday but with some hemp seeds
Fat Free Greek or regular with fat?
Bulk Supplements
Maybe this stuff.

https://www.amazon.com/dp/B002TG3QPO/ref=cm_sw_r_apan_glt_fabc_1T159FN7DQX1M6G1CCN0
I bought this stuff recently and it's as close to flavorless as I've found: https://www.amazon.com/GENEPRO-Medical-Servings-Musclegen-
Research/dp/B01N8VAJWP/ref=sr\_1\_5?
crid=1AZOPL8SU4PZH&dchild=1&keywords=genepro+protein+powder+unflavored&qid=1632796132&sprefix=genepro%2Chpc%2C211&sr=8-5
> NZ Protein Pea Isolate

bloody expensive tho
I love it.

I do 1 to 2 frozen bananas, 60g powder, 8oz Fairlife 0% milk, and sometimes 1tbsp peanut butter...

It's like 600 calories, 75-80g protein, and so good. I look forward to it.

If I'm trying to do an ice cream substitute, I do 4 oz of 0% milk, two frozen bananas, two scoops of vanilla ON, a handful of high cacao Lily's chips, a handful of
walnuts, and blend. It's so thicc you can eat it with a spoon.

The whole shake it in some water thing, fuck that. That's gross.
I drink vanilla Bulletproof collagen protein with butter & coffee every day. Love it.
Frozen fruit pre cut in the freezer, berries, mangos, bananas, peanut butter, yogurt / milk. Fuck yes I enjoy my shake lol.

I don’t always go big, sometimes it’s just water, but I like to put some real food in there on days I need more pep or want to treat myself :). Sometimes I mix it up just
so I’m not bored.
I like MF as well, use the isolate. I used to use Dymatize ISO100 but switched because I prefer not to use sucralose and the MF is similar in price range.
Muscle feast is the best, IMO. I actually think the taste is bad, but worth it to know you’re getting a quality product.
Updoot, I don't use protein powder anymore but I used MF exclusively when I did for a long time. Quality stuff.
What flavors have you tried?
By far the best tasting protein powder I've ever tried.
I don't see how protein powder is less of a solid meal than drinkable egg whites.
What do you mean by gimmicky? All I ever pay attention to is flavor and protein per scoop.
Are there protein emergencies?
Why use egg whites over whey? Looking at that website they are 5x more expensive than whey per gram of protein. Also, I get that they are pasteurized but does
that increase the bioavailability and remove the Avidin?
I stopped consuming raw eggs/whites after learning their digestibility is terrible. Only 50% of the protein is absorbed. Cooked is over 90%
I’m with you on this, dawg. Haven’t used a powder (other than here or there when I’m in a pinch) for ~5 ish years at this point.
Legitimate question: why buy those when you could just make your own drinkable egg whites?
I really enjoy their Chocolate brownie too. Its like chocolate smooth but with a hint of well browned baked goods
My favourite. Just picked up 11 lbs and saw mixed reviews which worried me a little. Happy to report that this may be the best protein I’ve ever tried.
My Protein Whey is by far and away the best whey in the world
30 lbs left? Sweet jesus lol.
Just mind the sugar and extra calories. I see 4 g of sugar per scoop and 160 calories for 25g of protein.
Could go for world's record biggest smoothie with that 30lbs extra
You gonna tell us the brand or leave us hanging?
Which brand?
Have you tried Orgain? I love the chocolate flavor mixed with a banana and some peanut butter.
I like Garden of Life. It's pricy but it's the best I've tried. Also has the lowest sodium of all the ones I've tried.
Vega is the brand I use. Its good tasting, has 30g of protein per serving, but kind of pricey. You get what you pay for though.
Ghost’s vegan protein was pretty tasty
The Protein Works - Soy Protein Isolate - Chocolate Peanut Cookie is literally my holy grail vegan protein.

~200 calories, 52g Protein for 2 scoops.

Chuck in 500ml Oat milk and you're looking at ~460 Calories, 65g Protein in 1 shake. 2 of those a day make it so easy to get vegan protein!

Tastes fantastic.

~£23 for 2kg
I just put in a separate comment. Precision Engineered Plant Protein (chocolate flavour) is very nice. I normally only like whey, but this ones good.

Also I dont know what country you're in but Linda McCartney Sausages and Burgers are great too (if they're available to you)
TrueNutrition! I use the unflavored vegan protein optimizer formula and it just kinda tastes earthy, I don't mind it at all even with no sweeteners.
Most if the vegan ones have no added sugar, same as the whey ones, but the whey has more natural sugar. My solution is to add a tsp of nestle hot chocolate mix.
Obviously I buy chocolate flavor.
I've started using huel's new protein powder which is vegan and demolishes all the other vegan powders I've tried (to be fair, not that many).
I’m not a fan of the amounts of sucralose they use
Still use them too, mainly because the price per lb is just so much better than every other protein I've seen. Unless anyone has recommendations for something
better for $50-60 per 11lbs bag.
It’s way too sweet for me
Dude. As a long time addict, **Double Rich Chocolate.**
I've been through a lot of ON's proteins and I like the Mocha Cappuccino.

To balance it out, I use unsweetened almond milk, freshly squeezed peanut butter, flaxseed, cinnamon, etc. In other words, should be adding very little sugar to
this.

I think it's a matter of switching up the flavors TBH. What else would you expect from "Vanilla Ice Cream" flavored whey protein?

If you want no taste and don't mind spending more, go with NAKED.
Optimum Nutrition makes naturally flavored versions of chocolate and vanilla, not sure if maybe those might taste less artificial. Other than that you can find
unflavored whey and just mix it with whatever you want.
can't speak to your specific ask, but I wanted to recommend using iced tea as a liquid; I've found half milk and half iced earl grey to be a particularly great
combination for a wide variety of protein powders
To add to this their (Lidl) high protein bars are really good for both value for money and calorie vs protein ration. They're 190ish cals and have over 20g of protein
per bar, great for tacking on that last bit of prot to see the days totals out.

&#x200B;

They're 2 or 3 quid for a box of 3, compared to say Grenade bars (which are the best but pricey) which are 20 quid for a box of 12.
Omg yes Lidl and Aldi are such lifesavers! Relatively cheap skyr and high protein yoghurts there
Agreed! Specifically with Lidl's yogurts (Milbona?).

€1 for 20G of protein at ~130 calories, depending on the flavour, is insane.
>Lidl and Aldi

Eh, I found their products have pretty bad protein:cost ratios. Never got beyond that so I can't say anything about the flavours. I think calories they are not too hot
either.
I know every powder says "delicious [flavor X]!" in order to make sales, but I wish somehow the vegan ones were more truthful. They can be honestly hard to choke
down.
Which pudding & ice cream mate? Haven’t seen those.

The protein granola is great tho. I usually mix it with their Greek yogurt
I agree. This shit works, tastes good, doesn't have funny shit in it, and you can buy it at Costco. What more do you want???
whey fix it
And minimal sugar
Won't ever be beaten.
Fairlife is “thin” because it’s not premixed protein powder and milk, it’s ultra filtered milk to increase protein concentration and reduce naturally occurring sugars,
much like the gallons of fairlife you can buy.

Love the stuff, you can buy at Costco.
Wondering if I should be concerned about a "complete" protein? Like right now I have the True Nutrition vegan mix which is like 80% pea, 10% rice, 10% hemp and
i just think soy tastes better in my smoothies plus it's cheaper.
These are Soooo easy to drink it doesn't feel like a chore to gulp them down lol chocolate and vanilla are both great!
At Costco?! I haven't seen this yet. Gotta check it out!
I heard the Fruity Pebble flavor is really good too
Also good for those with lactose intolerance. I love Gourmet Chocolate!
1g protein = 4 cals
$90! Better come in a 22# bag like my dog’s food god damn
What cut and how do you do 'er up?
That's cheating
I also cycled through powders until I tried Dymatize ISO100. Haven't changed in over 3 years now.
Try [Built Bars](https://built.com/collections/all_built_bars) maybe? 130 cal/17g protein. They can be a lil pricey so I wait for a sale or hopefully a random code pops
up on Honey. They also drop "limited edition" flavours from time to time. One thing I'd hope to see in the future is some 3rd party testing done like on labdoor or
something because it seems too good to be true sometimes.
* Dried edamame - 26 g, 99 cal, 12.1 g protein

* Dried soybeans - 23 g, 100 cal, 10.7 g protein

* Skyr (I get Siggi's) - 1 container, 110 cal, 15 g protein

* Beef jerky - 40 g, 100 cal, 15.7 g protein
A can of tuna.
hard boiled eggs are about 70 cal each. can also do edamame, and i second the recommendation someone else had for a can of tuna. i’ve been making tuna
sandwiches as my new zero effort meal and it’s been helping a lot
PEScience blend. Snickerdoodle is amazing
Quick and easy?? Quick is 30 seconds in a blender not 2 hours in a pressure cooker.
Still on that ON for nearly a decade. Over tried a few others but the taste sucks.
Word. Costco is a great place to get protein. In addition to the powder I get the Orgain shakes. For food it’s chicken breast, turkey, yogurt, and egg whites.
Simple, sweet, affordable.
Double rich is the superior choice. The regular chocolate is way too sweet, if you're double scooping you're gonna have a bad time.
I freaking LOVE their Cocoa Pebbles flavor. It's my #1 go-to right now.
My protein clear whey isolate is fantastic with water (if you want one for just water)
This right here was a game changer.
I add a little sugar free pudding powder with the almond milk and protein powder. Like 1/5 packets. It's like 15 added calories, but really adds a lot of smoothness.
Same here. I'm lactose intolerant, I think that's why.
this was several years ago.
Meal replacements yeah. I would never recommend mass gainer to anyone, especially not a child
Didnt they have some shit where they were terrible for the environment?
oh thanks. i felt it was under-utilzed and not popular
i wonder... probabnly yes if consumer reports does this type of testigbn
good thing. save your money & buy quailty
I was thinking about buying that one. Which flavor/no flavor is best? And is the taste any good?
It sounds like he's already there
More protein
Yep I like it a lot. I haven’t had the hot breath experience tho lol
Dry brines work with 4 - 8 hours of waiting because the salt will force water out of the chicken, but the chicken has time to reabsorb it. With less time the water will
leave the chicken and then you'll cook a more dried out piece. Wet brines (or better yet, a more seasoned marinade!) is best for quicker prep.
Does the chicken then taste like pickles?
Overnight works even better. Some soy sauce and rice wine for a quick asian-style marinade.
Sounds awesome, what ratio do you use?
Try Granite proteins. Been years since I’ve had PEScience, but it was also good when I had it.
Are you sure that would be healthier? I've been taking mass gainers for about 18 months now. The one I was getting before I actually enjoyed drinking, but yeah
this one is tough. That ON one is tough too because it's so thick. I'm not too keen on having a lot of whole milk though because it has a lot of sat fats (also acne
struggles)
Yeah, people can look into whether their response to the whole thing was satisfactory for them. I was personally satisfied with them cutting ties with the offending
farm and adding more cameras, etc.
Thanks for the recommendation, I know I'm missing a green in there and would love to without altering the flavor too much. I'll see if there's any frozen spinach next
time I go to the grocery store because it's hard enough to keep refrigerated salad fresh, and I like to go grocery shopping once every 10 days or so.
I do spinach and kale every time without fail. Barely alters the flavor
Nice. I've been doing it for years. Make sure the peanut butter is freshly ground like the ones you see at Whole Foods. Almond milk unsweetened. The peanut
butter and ON give it all the flavoring you need.
I've never had mixing problems with it. I just use a standard blender bottle with the metal ball. Never have clumps and I do two scoops in 12oz of milk. The mixers
with the mixing plate that sits at the top of the bottle are shit and don't mix well in comparison, if that's what you use.
I always use a blender
I already use water instead of milk because while I’m not lactose intolerant, I do get some bad reactions to it. I’ll look into pea protein, thanks man.
Isopure. You can get a flavorless protein isolate from them with literally just whey protein isolate. Tastes gnarly but no sweeteners. They also have flavored protein
and use monk fruit extract and Stevia leaf which are good sweeteners.
Just use unflavored whey proteins, they're tasteless and if you want mild flavour then you can add some flavour drops of your own choice.
Sorry, I don't. I was considering protein supplements and saw several recommendations here, and in other places. I was looking for something that had at least
passable flavor and enough protein to justify the cost. I looked at roughly 12 brands and they all had artificial sweeteners. After that I gave up and now look for ways
to get protein through diet alone.
Yes I like to mix it with Greek yogurt and blueberries! So good
They certainly aren't as tasty as bars like Grenade or Fit Crunch, but those have far less fiber, if any, and more sugars.
>Dymatize iso100

gourmet chocolate is the best! fruity pebbles, not so much.
Brine a (or several) chicken breast for 2-8 hours. Rinse and pat dry. Rub with olive oil, then rub with preferred seasoning. Bake at 450F for 18 minutes. Let sit for 5-
10 minites before consuming to let the juices set in.

Produce in bulk if needed and microwave later.

I hopped off the powder train and onto the Meat Monorail 6 months ago and haven't looked back since.
human!
Looks good thanks, I'll buy some to keep at my work desk. I currently have a 900g tub of protein in my drawer so something smaller might be better to have
The lemonade no, it's fantastic, but a couple of their other flavors do. It's sweetened with Stevia, so if you don't mind that then I'm sure you'll like it
If you’re interested in bottled protein shakes, Fairlife makes probably the best tasting one IMO. Chocolate tastes just like chocolate milk with no weird aftertaste.
Can agree, I down unflavored pea protein isolate, but you gotta drink it all in one go no stopping to get it down. Makes any other half-sweetened plant-based
powder taste like candy in comparison.
I liked their cold brew flavor more than chocolate/vanilla. But yeah, Vega is the only protein powder I've tried that I don't grimace after downing
Plus chai and flax seeds
Nonfat, but that's mostly coincidence. I saw it was 17g protein per 110 cal serving and that's as far as I read into it.

Oikos Triple Zero
i’m a full fat yogurt bitch but 2% is a good middle ground …. nonfat greek yogurt can be very sour
Not really? Compared to all the other brands, its cheap as chips.
It’s not tasty but I can get it over with in 10 seconds lol. It’s 60 grams of protein and it doesn’t hurt my stomach so ​♂️

I know there’s the study about only 50g is absorbed at a time, but the rest will sit on my stomach and eventually get digested too
Isn’t collagen protein considered the least bio available form? As in it’s not very well absorbed. It’s what’s in pork rinds, and despite having 10g per serving itll say
“not a significant source of protein”
Are there any sort of purity tests? Would love to make the switch but liking the labdoor results on Dymatize.
Neither do I.
> Also, I get that they are pasteurized but does that increase the bioavailability and remove the Avidin?

My understanding is that it does.

I like how I feel and perform using the egg whites vs the whey. I also appreciate how there is just one ingredient. Pure protein, no fat, trace carbs: far more modular.
If you are getting your eggs from a supermarket they will have been pasteurised.
These aren't raw egg whites.
I don't want to take the time to pasteurize egg whites at home
I will have to try that one next time. Have to get through my current 18ish lbs of Chocolate smooth
I moved from chocolate smooth to chocolate brownie and haven't looked back

I like the extra sweetness and chocolate flavor and it's not overly sweet
Tbh I'm somewhat similar

Whenever they had good-looking deals (in hindsight most of the time their deals, while great, are similar year-round), I would buy like 5-6 bags of 5.5 lb each

&#x200B;

That, coupled with the curiosity of wanting to try every flavor they had, yeah I could see 30 lb accumulating in no time
ghost brand
I have not. I'll look into it! Thank you! Sounds tasty!
Word. Sodium is so brutal in some of these mixes. I appreciate your insight! Thank you!
+1 for Vega. Smooth in the blender, definitely on the pricer side, but also has tart cherry mixed which is a nice addition
Thank you! I'll keep an eye out for it.
Thank you! I'll look into it!
Second the protein works. They make the only vegan stuff that's drinkable.
Third - have a buddy who eats vegan and he uses this one religiously. Out of the 4-5 vegan proteins Ive tried, this one taste the best
Awesome. Thank you for the breakdown! All the best!
Thank you thank you! I'll check these out!
Yeah I don't need a lot of flavor. Thank you very much!
Good idea adding a small amount of flavoring! All the best! Thank you!
I appreciate your recommendation! Thank you!
Have you tried mixing 1 flavored bag w/ 1 unflavored bag? This works for me.
I hate sweet stuff. Normally don't like protein bars and protein shakes because they are too sweet. This is the only one I've bought for the last 6 years. Have tried
samples of others and always end up buying this. Their casein whey is pretty good as well.

I mix them with whole milk and it helps with the sweetness as well.
[deleted]
Thanks, to be honest that was my first try at proteins ever so I just bought it because someone said it was great.

I just discovered that we simply don't have the same idea of what tastes good I guess.
Put it in the microwave for 10 seconds before eating. You can thank me later.

They have the same issue as the original quest bars with the tough texture, but a few seconds in there microwave make it so much better
I mean a skyr yoghurt from Lidl is 190cals, 30g of protein and costs somewhere between €1-€2. 100g of their granola is around 450cals and 28g protein which is
way better than any other cereal. I'm not sure how big the package is cause I'm currently out but I know it costs around €2 and a similar product in Tesco costs over
€6. I shop in lidl or aldi most of the time, cause they're so cheap. They're pretty small though and dont have everything so have to shop in Tesco too.
Yeah I agree. I got one called "PE+ Vegan" with mostly the same ingredients and very similar nutrition to the "Precision Engineered Plant Protein" and they couldnt
taste more different. The PE+ stuff is gross in my opinion. (I got them both cause I didnt know what to get at the time)
The icecream in lidl has the calories in large writing. (312cals and has 18g protein). The pudding is a smaller tub in the yoghurt section. Think it has 20g protein
written in the front (150cals)
No idea not a nutritionist but I can't see it being that big of an issue unless its the ONLY protein you eat. It tastes amazing and is one of the only protein powders I
can actually stomach easily. I see it as less of a complete protein vs non-complete and rather
I can have 2 easily in 1 day vs 1 a day is a massive challenge
hahaha it’s 60 servings @ 25g protein per serving. i think it’s still a bit pricier than most brands but there are no fillers & it’s grass fed whey
I'll make a note and give it a try when I finish with my current bag of fun!
Oh ok. Well I feel uninformed, what extra junk is in there, if you don’t mind.
A couple of years back one of their suppliers was revealed to be abusing animals. They (owned by Coca Cola) have since cut ties with that supplier and I would like
to believe they have gotten better
I just go unflavoured and guzzle it down because my wife drinks it too and doesn't like flavored protein (she's a masochist), but I did convince her to try the vanilla
and for pea protein is was quite nice
Ive only tried the tangerine one, and that was my experience. It was worth it lol
Not at all! I’ve never noticed anything other than a perfectly juicy chicken.
Not at all! I’ve never noticed anything other than a perfectly juicy chicken.
Awesome, thanks.
1:1:1. Usually 2 tbsp each to a package of chicken. Not sure how many lbs that is…maybe 2? 2-4 hours soak. It’s so good, you gotta try it
Awesome, totally forgot about them! I haven’t tried them but I definitely will now. Huge fan/supporter of John Meadows.
I would say in my experience yes. I just took a glance at the PhD mass gainer and the main ingredients are oat flour, protein, milk concentrate, and coconut oil, plus
a bunch of cheap empty carbs and sugars.


Just as a quick comparison (although idk how good PhD is about taking their nutrients) [this](https://imgur.com/a/Cdv3vg0) is a comparison between the store
bought mass gainer, and the recipe I recommended.


Cheaper, more nutritious, and will probably taste a hell of a lot better. And if you don’t like the oat flour, throw in a banana for some extra potassium and flavor
instead. And if the dairy worries you grab some lactase, it’ll be cheaper than the mass gainer.

I started off with mass gainer, always dreaded drinking them, and when I switched to whole foods I felt much better physically and mentally.


I’m currently gaining back weight after losing about 35 lbs due to COVID last year, and you couldn’t pay me to touch a store bought mass gainer this time around.
Put a paper tower in with your fresh spinach it'll last weeks. Frozen has too much flavor.
I buy my spinach and kale fresh and use it for salads but since I can’t get through all of it before it goes bad, I throw it in a gallon sized plastic bag and out it in the
freezer right before it looks like it’ll go bad.

Then I use it for protein shakes it’s delicious. I do this with bananas too.

That's the trick, use [Blender](https://www.blenderbottle.com/) bottle with the metal spiral ball. Ive tried different shakers, etc. and the blender brand is the best and
last the longest, as long as you wash and dry them after every use.
Damn thats rough. Good to know.
I alternate between gourmet chocolate and fudge brownie. Both solid. I also tried fruity pebbles and now it sits in my cupboard.
Inspired by another thread, I'm gonna try brining my chicken in pickle juice!
Settle down, Jeffrey.
Even if you don't like it, you can decant a preferred protein powder into the container afterwards.
That's actually what I buy! Just drank my last vanilla tonight.
It all gets digested. Don't worry about that 40g/50g at a time bs
According to their marketing it’s “enzymatically processed several times, to leave its nutrition-giving peptides intact. That makes it highly bioavailable.”

Haven’t looked at the research. I feel great with it. I also love the way the vanilla tastes with a hot almond milk, butter & coffee shake.

I also tend to stay in keto, so protein isn’t normally a concern since that’s a big part of my diet anyways. Diff needs for diff people.
idk what's more disgusting drinking raw egg whites or drinkable cooked egg whites
Is this the isolate lineup?

I’ve always been wondering about chocolate smooth and brownie. Is the chocolate smooth mostly just a chocolate flavour?

I’ve had the whey protein chocolate brownie and I found it okay.
I second orgain. My wife has a lot of food sensitivities and has never had any issues, and she eats it daily. By proxy, it’s become the protein that I use. I very much
enjoy it.

Buy from the distributor, not from Amazon. They always have deals and throw in freebies.
Happy to help!
Interesting. Thank you for the +1! All the best!
FYI he's talking about Vega *Sport*. It's in a black container.

FWIW I've tried the regular chocolate in the white containers (Vega Protein) and it tastes like literal dirt in addition to having half the protein per serving.
Rad. Some of them are unbearable. Thank you!
Thank you for the insight! Looks like ill def try this!
>I hate sweet stuff.

While I am a sugar addict, I get what you mean and thats why I'm addicted to DRC too. It's like an authentic high quality chocolate shake, not too sweet. If the milk
is cold, its ungodly good. Such a difference from the usual shit protein powder I tried. I doubt it, but are there are other flavours from ON that are on par with DRC?

ESN Designer Whey are decent to pretty good flavour wise, but a tad too sweet. They only come in 2lbs bags. Quite expensive too.
I'm typically not a huge fan of chocolate, but that's pretty damn tempting if it's a bittersweet. My go to is Gold's French vanilla. It's not too bad, sweetness is almost
to the heavy side, but is very tolerable with copious amounts of milk. I'd also be tempted to mix the two, bet the flavor profile would be insane if it were like a 2/3
cocoa to vanilla mix
His recommendation probably has more to do with ON being a solid reputable company with high quality products more than taste. I use the vanilla myself and love
it but they have an array of flavors
I think it just takes time to find what works for you and you kinda just have to bite the bullet and try a few things until you find something palatable.

Most of ON's proteins are just too sweet for me, except for their Double Rich chocolate (it uses some sweetener other than sucralose, but it's not as overbearing as
their other flavors).

Then when this thread comes around it's a good opportunity to see what else is out there and try new things!
Oh I thought you mean their powders. Skyr is decent, though the texture and taste is a nighmare, especially when on a cut. Their protein pudding is where the real
money is.
I have 80 servings at 25g per in a bag of ON that costs $25 at Costco. I buy happy cow beef, happy chicken, happy fish, but I’m struggling to justify that expense for
protein. Good on you if you can, though.
Yeah, I’m a big Meadows fan too. I use one of his trainers. His discount code is cedmonds10 in case you want to use it.

I also like true nutrition.
Hmm. I mean I can try it out, but what makes you say cheap empty carbs and sugars? Says on the packet it's only 6g of sugars per serving
That sounds amazing. I'll have to try it out. And yeah I figured that would be the case with frozen. Might still buy a small pack to try it out though. Definitely need
some greens either way.
Good to know which flavours NOT to buy!
Oh fuck. You just broadened my own horizons. My wife pickles as a hobby and most of the juice is dumped after we clean out a jar.

Gonna have to try this now haha
They are pasteurised so technically not raw and most certainly not "cooked" in the way you're thinking!
It’s a subtle difference chocolate brownie tastes a bit more like a baked good vs the chocolate
Smooth
I like it, but understand why someone wouldnt. It's a different texture to normal yoghurt. There are skyr drinks though that taste kinda like Yops. As for powders, I
dont think my lidl/aldi sells protein powder. It's usually just normal food stuffs with added protein. Holland & Barret always have something on sale though
Thanks man!

True nutrition scares me with how many options and flavors they have lol.
Maltodextrin is pretty high on the ingredients list. It’s not bad for you or anything, it’s just that the price you pay for these ingredients is really high for what what
you’re getting. That particular mass gainer actually isn’t the worst I’ve seen for ingredients, it’s just overpriced imo.


But at the end of the day, if it works for you and you’ve got the disposable income, there’s probably not too much harm in going for it, but I’d consider keeping an
eye on your micronutrients. I know a lot of people say “calories in, calories out,” but I notice my mood and performance increases when I’m hitting my
micronutrients, and that translates to better results for me.


But I’m also pushing 30, I need to dial things in way more than I did the first time around at 18-19. When I was in college I bulked on fried chicken, Italian subs, and
chocolate milk. No way could I do that now without getting a rock in my gut lol. So it really just depends on listening to your body at the end of the day.
I get groggy and my coffee doesn't hit right sometimes and I'm like oh shiz need my leafy greens. Works everytime.
There’s a lot of flavors… I’m a big chocolate fan so I like the whey protein isolate cold filtration with “trueflavor chocolate brownie” heavy flavoring. This mixes with
cold water so well. With egg whites it’s a legit milk shake.

These are other solid ones I’ve tried:

Trueflavor salted caramel (normal flavoring, not do heavy flavoring with this one).

Trueflavor Chocolate thin mint (have only tried normal flavoring)

Lemon cake - don’t bother (wife’s idea)
Thanks for the tips. My ISO of choice lately has been Dymatize. I typically mix my protein with oats or cream of rice 90% of the time. You ever tried to mix any of the
True Nutrition flavors into food?
Ah sorry, can’t help with that. I just buy the Rice And Grinds flavored stuff lol. Oats I mix in peanut butter and sweeteners. I haven’t tried dymatize either, so I don’t
have a good reference.

My brother loves the granite protein mixed in rice and grind though.
Alright, I'm going to try to keep this as objective as possible, so bear with me. I'll put this in the beginning just to get it out of the way:

[Start](http://imgur.com/a/gTJtyqL) / [3 Months](http://imgur.com/a/AdqKRNv) / [6 Months](http://imgur.com/a/BP3SrIG)

Some older background: Luckily for myself, I've always been fairly athletic and played a bunch of sports growing up, including baseball, football, and basketball. I
had never really considered my weight an issue, as I felt I was fairly muscular because I played sports.

Some newer background: Right before this, I was drinking somewhere between 3-6 beers a day. I was also only eating maybe two meals a day. Pair that with a
super fast metabolism, and you get overly underweight and a lose of strength.

One day, I decided to buckle down, cut drinking cold turkey, eat more, and change for the better.

I had some previous gym experience freshman year of college and some from a little bit before covid, so I felt somewhat comfortable trying to get back into the
swing of things. I used some of what I knew previously, as well as looking thru the fitness wiki and this subreddit, to decide on what routine I'd get myself into.
Ultimately, I decided to use the program listed in this post here: [Link]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/comments/37ylk5/a_linear_progression_based_ppl_program_for/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share).

I decided on a PPL split only because that's what I used to do before, it's what I felt most comfortable with, and I couldn't figure out the difference between all the
other splits with the information overload. I adapted some of it to fit some of the workouts I wanted to include, and it's changed over time. Listed below are what I
started with (with weights) and what I'm currently at (with weights). One disclaimer: I did end up switching gyms, so some of the weights don't translate properly. I
don't understand why at different gyms or between different equipment, some weight numbers mean different things on different machines, but it is what it is.
Start (all in lbs):

PUSH:
Bench: 4x5, 1x5+ @ 85
Overhead Press: 4x5, 1x5+ @ 55
Incline Dumbell: 3x8 @ 20
Fly Machine: 3x8 @ 80
Tricep Pushdown: 3x8 @ 70 SS 3x10 @ 7.5 Lat Raises
Tricep Extension: 3x8 @ 50 SS 3x10 @ 7.5 Lat Raises

PULL:
Deadlift... (Never Happened)
Barbell Row: 4x5, 1x5+ @ 75
Lat Pull: 3x8 @ 90
Row: 3x8 @ 90
Face Pull: 3x8 @ 60
Hammer Curl: 4x8 @ 15
Regular Curl: 2x8, 1x5+ @ 15

LEG:
Squat: 2x5, 1x5+ @ 105
Romanian Deadlift: 3x8 @ 105
Leg Press: 3x8 @ 250
Seated Leg Curl: 3x8 @ 140
Calf Raise: 5x8 @ 50

ABS:
Plank: 3x45sec
Side Plank: 3x45sec

Current (all in lbs):

PUSH:
Bench: 4x5, 1x5+ @ 160
Overhead Press: 4x5, 1x5+ @ 95 SS 3x15 @ 45 Shoulder Shrugs (after third set)
Incline Dumbell: 3x8 @ 50
Fly (Mid): 3x8 @ 37.5
Fly (High): 3x8 @ 37.5
Fly (Low): 3x8 @ 17.5
Tricep Pushdown: 3x8 @ 72.5 SS 3x10 @ 17.5 Lat Raises
Tricep Extension: 3x8 @ 62.5 SS 3x10 @ 17.5 Lat Raises

PULL:
Barbell Row: 4x5, 1x5+ @ 155
Lat Pull: 3x8 @ 150
Row: 3x8 @ 130
Face Pull: 3x8 @ 50
Back Raise: 3x8 @ 90
Hammer Curl: 4x8 @ 32.5
Regular Curl: 2x4 @ 32.5
Forearm Twists: 3x15 @ 45

LEG:
Squat: 3x5, 1x5+ @ 205
Leg Press: 3x8 @ 410
Glute Extension: 3x8 @ 35
Prone Leg Curl: 3x8 @ 120
Leg Extension: 3x8 @ 185
Calf Raise: 3x10 @ 200

ABS:
Crescent Tucks: 1x10
Backward 7's: 1x8
Laying Leg Lift: 1x15
Ball Twist: 1x15 @ 10
Oak Tree Step Out: 1x20 @ 25
All x2, Every Other Day

So yeah, there's that. I usually do this six days a week, barring any outside circumstances.

As for my diet, that's a strange thing. I'm the type of person that is perfectly content with eating the same three meals, every day, with minimal effort in making all
three. People make fun of me all the time, but it is what it is. The schedule of my job doesn't really allow me to cook dinner often either. I try and eat things that are
cheap, high in protein, and high in calories. If I can get all three of those things, I'm happy with eating it. With that, my daily meal and snack list is the same. Same
bowl of cereal for breakfast, same turkey sandwich for lunch, same frozen pasta bowls for dinner. Listed below in the link are screenshots of all three meals and a
snack, as well as the nutritional content of what I get throughout the day. I know I probably eat too much protein and maybe sodium. If anyone has suggestions, feel
free to let me know.

[Diet](http://imgur.com/a/Sg0sZc8)

Other things to include:
- In the past month and a half, I've started to use pre-workout. I personally use Pre-Jym.
- In the past month or so, I've started to use creatine.

Main things I've learned:
- Form is most important (given).
- Breathing control is second most important (basically, to me).
- Eating more and better really did make a world of difference.
- You can surprisingly go up in weight wayyyy quicker in the beginning than I thought.

Things I'm working on:
- Mainly incorporating deadlifts into my routine. Thinking about first exercise on my pull day before barbell rows. Would remove back raises.
- Trying to focus on my chest. Always been the weakest part of my body. Not exactly sure how to be more dynamic and really hit it hard.

Things holding me back:
- From three to six months, I feel like I've had minimal visible change. I've increased in weight a decent bit in some areas. Am I plateauing? (hence use of pre-
workout and creatine).
- For the last few weeks to months, I've had progressively worse left golfer's elbow tendinitis. I've been working to reduce the root cause of it while increasing the
stretching of my wrist/forearm area. I have been working thru it currently (although it's probably not recommended).
- My right shoulder is weird. Overuse of throwing a baseball (possibly incorrectly) when I was younger has caused it. Kinda feels like it pops a lot. Kinda feels painful
at times. Kinda seems like rotator cuff, but really not. I don't think it is. Who knows.

But yeah, ultimately that's my progress, journey, and guide to where I'm at now. I'm open to suggestions on any aspect of what I've done so far, whether it be focus
exercises or dietary changes, so please let me know! Thank you all very much.

Edit: Reddit is a very weird place man. I'm very jaded when it comes to this post now. I woke up this morning to a TON of people telling me I wasn't underweight and
basically shitting on me. First off, my bad. I don't periodically check my BMI. I haven't done that since they make you do it in high school. Plus, what else am I
exactly supposed to reference for being underweight? I don't ask other people for their weights and to see them with their shirts off. In my mind, I was underweight.
For that, I guess I apologize for being wrong for something I didn't even know about. If I could edit the title, I would. I'm jaded because I've seen this sub help a lot of
people, I've asked questions in it and looked for help, and I've seen people make some great progress too. I was surprised when I made a lot of progress, so I
thought I'd share because I figured it could help others too. But a part of me wants to say screw it and delete the whole post altogether because people are getting
mad over me not knowing I wasn't underweight. What's the point of trying to be positive when every comment is shitting on you for an uneditable title? I don't know
what else to say.
You can incorporate DL by alternating between it and Barbell row on your pull days.
You're not even close to 'very underweight' dude lmfao I thought the start picture was your END
\>very underweight to healthy

130lbs at 5'7 isn't very underweight and neither are your starting pictures....
What if you added some veggies for fiber/micronutrients? ❤️
Good for you, man!
oh god... im 5 7 and like 110lbs
Ayy good work, keep it up!
Same height, same starting weight..this gives me hope!!


My starting numbers are also pretty much almost thr same as yours.
Great progress man.

I'm about to start doing that exact program, so I'm glad I stumbled upon this post.

Your quads are getting massive.
Underweight my ass. I'm 6'3"and weighed 135 before I started lifting, with a perfect bill of health, blood work and all. You've done good work, but is that some body
dysmorphia or are you just ignorant?
OP you’re doing a great job. This comment section reeks of small and weak people trying to cope.
I wouldn’t say you were underweight mate, but you did make great progress! Congrats!
Nice work OP. Shame that your thread got derailed by hungry skeletons taking your title very personally.
HELL YEAH, KEEP IT GOING. YOU GOT THIS
Good stuff bro, got down to 127 myself and rockin 140-150 these days. Happy for you dude!
Proud of you, dude!
I was in a very similar weight situation after high school. Was around 126 lbs and eventually got up to 150 in a year with working out and eating right. Working out
and taking control of your body is one of the most satisfying and rewarding experiences. Keep it up and continue to inspire others around you!
It looks good from the beginning, keep going
What a clickbait. This ain’t underweight smfh
Solid resource for me, nice.

Edit. ID bet ya there is quite a visible change, though kind of subtle as well
Progress is insane. Any tips on increasing calories like that? I cannot imagine eating 9oz of turkey, which is like 1.5-2" thick alone. 4 cups of cereal is basically half
a box every morning.
Amazing progress! As a tiny word of caution, tennis elbow is nothing to mess around with, I ignored mine and ended up in a sling for two weeks because just
opening a door caused huge pain spasms.
i honestly thought that first image was last progress
I don’t wanna blow up your spot, but let’s just say I have the same shorts you have in your second pic from gym class also lol
This has literally changed the way I work out - thank you. I did my first push workout yesterday based on the post you linked and have read and re-read every word.

Who the hell gatekeeps 'underweight'. Ignore these weirdoes.

Good work. Good writing.

Saved.
Thank you for give me detailed information about your work out
5'7" and 130lbs is a BMI of 20.4. That's not underweight.
130lb is considered very underweight?

Damn, I am 99lb @ 5’2 lol.

Inspiring achievement though gz bro. I will try to meet my goals too.
A BMI of 20.4 is not underweight. Normal weight range is 18.5 - 24.9
Good job. Still seem pretty light at 147lbs. Keep up the good work and keep bulking.
Great progress! I'm in a similar boat. I was about 135 5'9" and I've been eating a ton and working out for about an hour every morning. My routine isn't as formal as
yours. I usually just jump on whatever machines are open at the gym, and since I'm living on campus as a student I just eat whatever is at the cafeteria. After about
a month of that I'm up to about 142.
wtf 130lbs isnt underweight hahaha
You’re not underweight. I was 130lbs at 5’11 for a time, and I wasn’t even convinced that I was underweight, just very lean.
How many extra calories did you eat per day starting at 130?

I'm trying to get down to 130 at your height now (144 and skinny fat right now), would love to replicate your results. Even looking like your 3 month progress would
be amazing in the next year lol
I have a kid that is desperately trying to put on weight. Doesn't work. He's a big gym rat and he eats. Any ideas on dietary mass gainers and eating habits?
Your starting picture was an average healthy guy (not underweight) that probably just doesn’t go to the gym… End photo was an average healthy guy that has been
to the gym for 6 months and subsequently packed on some muscle… That’s it.
I’m at 125lbs and push multiple sets of 165-175lbs (4-5 sets) pretty easy. I use zero supplements. I used to be at 130 doing 200 lbs@ 5 reps but that i lost it and I’m
working back towards it.

The key for me is variation in bench. Some days I do pyramid, other days it’s reverse. Some days I like to alternate between 10 rep sets and 5 rep sets I like to
superset my bench press with dumbbell fly exercises or incline/decline pushups. I do bench twice a week but I’ll focus on incline or decline, or body exercise stuff for
my second bench day.
Great progress! Especially the forearms…what is a forearm twist? And anything else you do for forearms?
Hell, I'm 29, 5'9 and finally stable at 130lb after being at 120 since high school. I feel underweight lol

You look great though man. Congrats, seriously.
Some [food](https://www.elitefts.com/education/novice/how-to-stay-small-and-weak/) for thought that gets passed around here. Don’t be afraid of gaining weight as
a skinny guy. Great progress man!
Great progress homie.
Fly Machine: 3x8 @ 80

Tricep Pushdown: 3x8 @ 70

Tricep Extension: 3x8 @ 50

Lat Pull: 3x8 @ 90

Row: 3x8 @ 90

Face Pull: 3x8 @ 60

I think these are all in lbs.

Im at the 6 month stage and all our lifts are practically identical if converted into KG
Did you do abs everyday? and what about cardio?
For diet, that is a shit ton of sodium every day. It might not hurt you now, but as you approach 30 you will start to have some bad effects of that much sodium. I
would try and find ways to reduce that if you can.


You mention cooking dinner isn't an option with the job often, but you could still look at doing crock pot type meals on a weekend and freezing them for the week for
example.


For chest progression, I noticed I stalled on mine when I was doing a 3x5+ and even 5x5 program. I've been doing Nsuns program for a while now and I'm see more
progress in my chest. So it may just be a volume thing there for you. You could implement some incline barbell bench in there as well if comfortable with it.
You’re not plateau, you’re hitting your first hurdle though. Cut a little or maintain for a while. Get your body used to being at that weight and eating that much. Don’t
drop below 142 during this period or you will slip.
During this period you want to work on reps and specializing workouts, to help your overall main lifts go up as well.
Check what your PR is in all of the main exercises. Bench, squat, deadlifts.
Ex: to increase your bench you want to start doing incline. But focus on dumbbells and form for your reps. Rep range:8-10 and down two reps every time you go up.
If you can only do PR of 1 at 225 squat you’ll know you are progressing when you can do two, three, four. Once you hit three consistently go up to a higher weight.
You are looking for strength and then form and then reps.

After a month go for another bulk to the next weight class if you want.
5'7" 130lbs is a super healthy weight, but your progress towards better fitness is still great!
Not to step on your foot, but personally I'd advice against a PPL routine at your stage. I think you'd be better off with a full body or Upper/Lower routine. PPL is best
suited for advanced or at bare minimum late intermediates. You need throw around some serious weight and know how to push productive volume every session to
really benefit from a PPL. That's the core concept of a PPL and thats why its split the way it is. This is what most pro BB'lers tend do.

You vastly underestimate how little effective volume you actually need if you understand RIR and intensity. Different story the further you advance but with those
numbers, it's kind of "wasted" effort. You could get a massive boost with a FB or U/L in strength and size.
For chest maybe try including some higher rep work? I saw you have some higher rep sets at the end for OHP, there’s no reason you couldn’t do similar with
bench. Also worth looking into bench variations (you already do incline but maybe decline)? Oh and dips are the other exercise I can think of that isn’t already
included in your routine.

The other solution is general volume. My main knowledge of this is people going for a bigger butt will often do some sort of glute work 3+ times a week, even if one
day of that is just light bodyweight or band work rather than heavy work with a barbell. No reason same principle couldn’t apply to other muscles. Although without
reworking your whole routine (which otherwise looks good) I admit I’m not sure where you’d fit that in. Maybe throw in some push-ups at home (maybe on leg days,
but separate from gym time so you’re not generally fatigued by the time you get to them)?
Man you have crazy traps genetic for what i see in the picture
I have the same pop in my shoulder from baseball.
Youre 66kgs?
My thoughts exactly
exactly! i mean i can kind of see his ribcage but otherwise looks good from the beginning
Lol yeah I thought the same thing, I'm 5'11 145, which is definitely on the skinnier side but as a distance runner I've seen people far slighter who I wouldn't even call
"very underweight"
Fucking same
His starting picture looks way better than I did at 5'8 130... I was a stick.
Very underweight = not Captain America
Very american post by OP.
It’s underweight for an adult male.
Well, to each their own, but when you can see your ribs, you have what feels like a recessed chess when you look in the mirror, and that the only thing attached to
your arms is barely any muscle and no fat, you begin to feel very underweight ​♂️

Edit: Well shit, I didn't realize this was such a downvote-able comment
I was gonna say, I got down to a similar weight at 6’3” and I was underweight, but it was kind of borderline. I’ve put on a few more pounds again, but I still look way
worse than his start point.
That's perfectly fine! The skinnier you are, the faster you gain while not having to worry about looking fat. Give yourself 5 months of consistent diet and workout and
you'll be 140 no problem

Everyone starts in a different place. Dont compare yourself to other people.
You’re in a fantasy world if you think 6’3” and 130lbs isn’t under weight
I was 130lbs at 6’1 and was a great cross country athlete. Very little muscle but fit as hell and could run for ages, I could run a 12 second 100m as well. Society
really is making us believe we’re supposed to be absolute tanks if we want to look like a real man.

I’m between 160-165lbs these days which is a lot better/ healthier (I only put on muscle really, not much fat. Grinded the gym for a bit). I feel like there is a huge
different between someone who is quite lean and fit that eats right compared to someone who eats very little and does no exercise.
Is it healthy to be an adult man who couldn’t tear a wet paper bag?
You were literally clinically underweight...
I was about to say. If thats underweight then my starting point of 143lbs 6'2 was anorexic.
[deleted]
Agreed! Love all the detail. Awesome work and try to ignore all the negative people.
I'm quite surprised by the comment section too. Regardless of the fact if he was underweight or not, he has packed on great size in six months, something to
appreciate. No idea why everyone's so mad.
Honestly, no major tips lol. I just hopped in pretty quickly after seeing what was in everything I ate. And yeah, it's funny you say all that because it's true. My
roommate makes fun of my for my sandwich being that thick, and it literally is half a box of cereal. I finish it in two breakfasts.
> 9oz

As an aussie, I had to convert. Only 255g. That's not much at all.
Ayyy so you went to CBA too then lmaoo
OP is 5 inches taller than you...
You should get a set routine instead of doing random ass machines everyday.
It's all relevant, huh? You might not see that as underweight as you were 130 pounds at 5'11" for a long time. I've been 6'1" 195-210 for a long time and that
definitely looks underweight to me.
I’m sorry but I used to be 130 at 5’10” and that’s straight up skeleton mode
If you're skinny fat at 144 then you don't have enough muscle to cut down to anything. Don't waste months cutting that could be spent building your foundation.

EDIT: Whoever downvoted me - enjoy your body dysmorphia, you're deluded if you believe anyone at 144 5ft7 should be cutting to 130. Unless it is for sport
purposes.
If I had to guess (because I never really counted calories before I started), I went from around 1200 calories a day to about 2800-3000 calories a day. I try to get at
least 2600 bare minimum.
If he eats a healthy diet and he still doesn't work then he probably miscalculated his calories and doesn't eat enough.
Eat more
Volume is good, actually
What's wrong with being able to see his rib cage?
Honestly I'd kill to look like him when I first started. I was 125 at 6'0 tall lool actually underweight
I was 130 at 6'1 for most of my adult life... yeesh
his starting BMI is 20.4

eyeballing his starting BF at 13%, his FFMI is 18.3, with the average white guy being 18.9 which gets skewed a bit higher as fat guys tend to carry more FFM than
lean guys and most people these days are fat.

he's not in anyway shape or form captain american or underweight, he's literally an average lean person.
No it isn't, not even close. He had a BMI of 20,4 at the start which is completely healthy lmao.
According to what?
There are some big guys that feel very small. I'm not trying to out a downer on your hard work and achievements, but 'very underweight' or unhealthy does not
describe your start point.
Ignore these people dude. They're just crabs in a bucket looking to drag you down. Most of the ones saying you weren't underweight and neither are they actually
*are* underweight and coping hard.
I can see where you are coming from since I felt that way, but I agree that 130 could be underweight just not very underweight ya know? Also good shit my man.
You can really tell the difference in the pictures.
be careful with how you develop sources of self-esteem. that entire post is body dysmorphic and its not a good thing if that starts dominating your life. the fact
you've now been told be a fair few people that you don't look how you think you do, should help you realise that. your progress has been good tho and your 6 month
pictures look good. you have a small frame, don't compare how you look to anyone other than shorter, smaller framed people. i am 5'6 and i would be skin and
bones at 130lbs cos i have a much bigger frame than you. your 6 months picture is what i look like at 170lbs.
Ignore the downvotes. 130lbs is small af.
As someone who has had the same build as your starting point, I agree that that's underweight. You're killing it now.
Body dysmorphia is often talked about in the context of women, but it's very much so a reality for men also. Men are subjected to a large amount of unrealistic body
imagery also.


In this case, the downvotes are kind... they are trying to reassure you that in reality your before pictures look much better than you think that they do.
The picture just doesn't serve your story super well, like I'm sure you were feeling exceptionally shitty with binge drinking every day and not eating enough, and I'm
also sure you would outwardly appear pretty rough after another few months/years of that routine. Good shit for recognizing your problem early and not letting your
body get to that point, but you're fortunate that you had enough of an athletic base to "mask" the struggle that you were going through for long enough.
6’3” and 130lbs is not borderline dude. That’s very very skinny
really? ive been between 110-115 for like 4 years, it kinda feels like my bodies jusy locked into "this" but i also know i dont eat enough so idfk
All three doctors that I saw when at that weight disagree with you. So does my blood work. BMI is a general metric that can be useful at population scales, but
absolutely does not apply to everybody when it comes to general health. It is very unreliable for athletes, both [heavy](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29351164/)
and [light](https://kevishere.com/2020/05/26/shortcomings-of-the-body-mass-index-bmi/). It is a screening tool. That is all. Feel free to provide some sources that
say that height and weight combo is automatically underweight.
Same. I swam and played baseball and could run a sub 6 minute mile. I was anything but unhealthy.
Hey, I’m in similar experience and I’d appreciate if you help me a bit. I was 120-125, 6’0 when I started working out and eating more. Now I’m at 140 after just a
couple months but I don’t see much difference other than a little more muscle. Would you say that’s normal for 20-15 pounds increase? I know I should just keep
going but it’s frustrating and wanted to know other’s experience. Thanks!
6'3" and 135 does not automatically make you unhealthy or underweight. I have always eaten a lot, and when I'm not trying to put on weight, that's just where my
body settles at. I would probably be 140-150 if I didn't try to maintain my weight. The 135 was 10+ years ago, before I was fully grown, so neither me or my doctor
was surprised or concerned.

&#x200B;

Everybody is different. BMI charts and "normal" weights vs height are not set rules. But talk to a doctor if you're concerned, not some stupid redditor with an
anecdote.
I’m not surprised, just disappointed
Also agreed.

People need to relax damn. Also while his BMI may have been normal, I’d say he was pretty underweight.
Lmao well at least you’re honest
I eat the same cereal, and I don't think I could eat half a box a go, haha. It's got the fiber and protein I want, but it's a slog to eat some days. I usually need to add
some sugar or fruit, too. Good on ya for slamming through it!
For a steak dinner, yeah 9oz/250g of meat isn't a lot. For a sandwich that's pretty insane. Most deli meats come in packs of 250g or 500g lmao.
Shoutout to the brothers!
I’m already at like 26%ish body fat though. Even if it may be more optimal to bulk right now, I would really like to avoid getting a higher body fat percentage than I
already have
He's eating way over 3500 calories a day. I'm logging food intake and some times he's over that. Doctors not worried, but he looks so thin.
He drinks weight gainer after every meal
It is, but with those stats I don't think it warrants a PPL. I think he could achieve quite abit more and even faster with FB or U/L.
Nothing but it’s something you could say about someone too skinny. But seeing ribs on a healthy person is also normal obviously to a smaller degree
What are you now, and how long have you been working at it? I’m 140 and 6ft but I’m just starting to get into working out.
Healthy as in ‘won’t die of this’. But very far below optimal weight range.
BMI ???? Hmm
Shut the fuck up, no they're not, 5'7 and 130 is not underweight. It's cool he's making progress to get healthier, but him saying he's very underweight is either a lie,
or he just didn't bother to look up BMI or recommended weight for your height
Yeah I'm honestly really concerned that OP looks as good as he does, but he still feels insecure about it like it isn't enough.

Tbh I think OP should probably seek professional help about it because I think he is going down a dangerous path constantly chasing muscle gains that can lead to
things like steroid usage. Mental Fitness is just as important as the physical kind.
5'7" is small af.
You think people are downvoting in an attempt to *reassure* him? What?
Yeah, the threshold for clinically underweight (BMI) at 6'-3" height is about 145 lbs. Way more than 130 lbs!
Closer to 140. Yeah, very skinny, even by my standards, but I bounced back quickly enough that retrospectively, it doesn’t worry me too much. It was kind of scary
to step on the scale and realize it wasn’t just my imagination. Also, I was kind of starving myself for a couple days just because I didn’t want to cook or go to the
store… I’m doing much better now though.
Your body hasn't locked into being 110-115, your habits and your diet has you locked in to being 110-115. You said it yourself: you don't eat enough.
It's not like this discussion has anything to do with blood work, general practitioners, or even BMI.

You are using the fact that you were 6'3" and 135 to call OP ignorant / having some kind of body dysmorphia.

Which is ironic.

At 6'2" 215, I too have great blood work. I could gain 50 pounds and probably still have great blood work. That doesn't mean that 265 pound me is going to be
optimal long term or not create problems, and the same could be said about the 6'3" 135 non-lifting version of you.
I didn’t realize you were an advanced athlete. Apologies for thinking that a 16.2 bmi was underweight.

You can be fine and he underweight so I’m not sure why you’re bringing up your blood work. It’s weird that you had something going on where 3 doctors individually
told you that you weren’t underweight. And needed blood work. But apparently we’re also completely healthy.

You hear hooves behind you in the US you assume it’s a horse not a zebra. Someone tells you they were 6’3” and 130lbs putting them at a 16.2 bmi you assume
they were underweight not some outlier.

I’m sorry that it bothers you so much that you were a skeleton. I used to be too. I still am but I used to be too
I always find it funny that it's either the extremely fat or the extremely underweight that bitch about BMI not being accurate. Tough shit son, you were clinically
underweight acording to the tool that we use to determine that. Furthermore if you use the [tall BMI scale](https://tall.life/better-bmi-for-short-and-tall-people/) you
were even further underweight than standard (16 vs 16.9)

You were skin and bones. Get over it.
That's being tall for you. I'm 6'3" on the dot and started at what I considered to be an underweight 165-170. I'm now at 210 3 years later (with a long gap in between
due to COVID). My bench went from 110 to 220+ 1RM in that 3 year period and I still don't feel like I look all that different.
[removed]
Fair point. At that point, salad bowl would be easier
When you are light weight and have a high body fat percentage it’s not because you’re over fat, it’s because you’re under muscled. That’s why they’re
recommending a bulk.
if I was you I would slowly bulk to 155 over the next 6-8 months. Nobody has ever been fat in history at 155 5ft7. Especially not when the last 10 pounds will be
probably be 6 or 7 pounds of muscle.

I am basically your height and I wasted nearly a year staying at 152-155 because I was too scared of getting fat. Zero gains. Now I am 184 and will probably finish
cutting at 170.
It's not up for debate. The body doesn't lie unless a medical issue is present.

A) Either incorrect TDEE,

B) or miscalculating daily calorie intake
Umm...that's strange do you help him count or he counts himself heck his scale could even be wrong or he misuses it. It's very confusing how he still stays lean.
You sure he doesn't have any health problems? or he STILL doesn't eat enough but with 3.5kcal I doubt.
Two options.

Option 1: His TDEE ramps up in response to overfeeding, which does happen.

Option 2: He doesn't finish all the food that you track for him and therefore isn't eating as much as you think he is.

the solution to either option is to consume more food.
What’s wrong with a PPL? It’s not my style personally, but plenty of folks have gotten themselves plenty strong with that method, and it seems to be working well
enough for OP. PPL is pretty standard, and not some weird advanced-level-only type of thing. I would suggest reading the wiki; there are a few PPLs in the
recommended programs for beginners. I’d argue that consistency is way more important than premature attempts at optimization.
exactly that
Optimal is 18-22 BMI so what are you talking about
His optimal weight would be around 143lbs but he is still within what is considered healthy no doubt.
Yikes I really hope you're not an actual RD.
Not being "optimal" doesn't mean unhealthy either.. lol.
I will not. How about you take your own advice. There’s some dumbass in here who’s 6’3” and 135lbs saying that he’s not underweight at that height. Booo fucking
hooo OP felt underweight and skinny at his starting weight, the fucking horror.

Go scream into the void about how you aren’t small and weak somewhere the fuck else.
130lbs is tiny for 5'7"
50 is old
Glad to hear you’re doing better
How is it ironic? I was never and have never been unhappy with my body.

&#x200B;

Everybody is different, and most people have a very wide range for what weight will be healthy long term. There are far better metrics for measuring health than
weight vs. height, with the point being that BMI is not very useful on an individual basis.
You've entirely missed my point. I was not, am not, and never will be bothered by being skinny. As I said, BMI is a screening tool. Nothing more. A more detailed
picture needs to be put together for anybody to judge the general health of a person. From his pictures, height, and weight, I don't think the OP was underweight.
Tbh I love the BMI scale inaccuracy. I find being obese pretty damn funny.
It is an [objectively bad](https://www.nature.com/articles/ijo200887) metric on an individual basis. [Other metrics]
(https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1467-789X.2011.00952.x) are much better.
Damn, I forgot about that. Always see these stories of people changing their total look with just a couple pounds and ask my self why can’t I do it. I’ll keep it in mind
although it’s sucky haha
At a population level, that’s probably arguable. For an individual with low body fat, that’s complete nonsense.
Me too, otherwise I’ve been getting it all wrong.
Being underweight is not a feeling, just like being obese is not a feeling.
The irony is trying to use your completely irrelevant example of being a 6'3", 135 lb no muscle mass active teenager 10 years ago as a reason to throw around
terms like body dysmorphia and ignorant at the OP.

We get it. You were a skeleton. A healthy skeleton. It worked while you young, playing sports and studying ("before I was fully grown" you said). It's not a good
benchmark to go comparing others off of regardless of whether or not you were happy with your body.

You are also the only person talking about BMI here. The rest of us are using common sense.
No, I think you’ve missed my point. You clearly were Implying that you were not underweight at 6’3” and 135lbs. I disagreed that you were not underweight and you
tried to make it about other stuff. I didn’t say anything about your overall health markers. Only that 135lbs at 6’3” is definitively underweight. To say otherwise is
ridiculous. I was 140lbs at 6’2” and I was a fucking rail dude. Even at 200lbs I’m not that big.
I'm glad you're happy with your body! I sat around 100lb (5'4") for a long time and I was undoubtedly underweight, but I was fine with it. I did gain weight when I
started lifting and I would absolutely say I'm happier with my body now, but that doesn't mean I was unhappy to start. Being underweight absolutely does not mean
you have to be unhappy with your body - but on that same note, being happy with your body does not mean you aren't underweight.
It does tickle me a bit.
Cope harder. Also both of those deal with obesity, not being underweight. Which is what you were and are (assuming you’re still only 140lbs like you say in another
comment)
Yea, but the perks of being tall outweight the cons. Focus on the numbers rather than what you see in the mirror as a measure of progress. It's still insanely
satisfying.
I didn't see OP list their body fat. Did I miss something?
Take your pedantic bullshit somewhere else. OP felt like he was skinny as shit so he called himself underweight. Boo fucking hoo. According to the skelly that I
mentioned being underweight doesn’t even exist because BMI sucks.



Y’all are real dumb.
Care to provide any real counter argument? Or just more personal attacks?
Oh it’s great that you have that experience, I’ll try to focus on the numbers, but I think appearance change is way more rewarding for me.
And now thinking about it, probably the reason we don’t see change is because the mass we’re gaining is mostly muscle and it is very compact.

Damn. This is fitness 101 and everyone (including me) seems to always wonder the same things over and over. We should really be more educated about this in
schools.
Nah. Just eyeballed it.
I don’t talk to spooky skeletons trying to convince people they aren’t something they absolutely are. Enjoy being a twig!
Ah okay. Thanks :)
Get your dunce hats out, Fittit, it's time for your weekly Stupid Questions Thread.

Post your question - stupid or otherwise - here to get an answer. Anyone can post a question and the community as a whole is invited and encouraged to provide an
answer. Many questions get submitted late each week that don't get a lot of action, so if your question didn't get answered before, feel free to post it again.

###**As always, be sure to read the [FAQ](https://thefitness.wiki/faq/) first**.

Also, there's a handy-dandy **search bar to your right**, and if you didn't know, you can also use [Google](https://www.google.com/) to search fittit by using the
limiter "site:reddit.com\/r/fitness".

Be sure to check back often as questions get posted throughout the day. Lastly, it may be a good idea to sort comments by "new" to be sure the newer questions
get some love as well. [Click here to sort by new in this thread only.]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/comments/pwc9ec/moronic_monday_your_weekly_stupid_questions_thread/?sort=new)

So, what's rattling around in your brain this week, Fittit?

---

As per [this](https://old.reddit.com/r/Fitness/comments/20namh/meta_can_we_delete_jokes_from_the_moronic_monday/) thread, the community has asked that we
keep jokes, trolling, and memes outside of the Moronic Monday thread. Please use the downvote / report button when necessary.
# Post Form Checks as replies to this comment

### For best results, please follow the **[Form Check Guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/posting_guidelines#wiki_how_to_post_a_form_check)**.
*Help us help you.*

----


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Fitness) if you have any
questions or concerns.*
How do you deal with 'can't be arsed' moods when it comes to training and diet?

I'm going through a disinterested phase and having to force myself hard to workout. And all I want to do is eat pizza and chocolate. So far resisted.

I'm female and possibly time of the month is looming.

Give me your motivational vibes
Are all creatine monohydrate the same? Should I just buy the one with the lowest price?
I know that it's important to go close to failure in your sets to build muscle, but my question is the following:

Of course I can lift a lot more weight during the first set than during later ones (I usually train 3 sets 8-12 reps depending on the lift), so either I'll try to choose a
weight that I'll be able to lift for all three sets, then the first set will be pretty easy but the last one will be a challenge. OR I'll put on more weight for the first set and
then I'll have to reduce the weight for the following sets. If I train with different weights, the volume might actually go down because I'm so fatigued from the first set
that I'll barely be able to lift anything in the last one.

So which is better?

Additional Info: I'm a relative beginner, been training for 6 months now, lost around 50 lbs with building some muscle, around 25-30% BF still and goal is body
recomp but obviously with a bigger emphasis on fatloss because I'm still pretty fat lol. Thanks for any answers!
Why aren’t Bulgarian split squats recommended more as a lower body compound movement alternative to squats? The unilateral movement increases your stability
more than normal squats do, you don’t run the risk of injury as much and they are taxing as hell. They really make my legs grow quickly
What's the best type of food to eat before a morning workout? Sugar, protein, carbs? I'm currently just having two bananas with my coffee which seems to work well
but just wondering if that can be improved at all.

I've tried fasting then eating a big breakfast after the gym but it makes me way too light headed right after lifts, personally
Why does the nsuns program use such low weights compared to the 1rms you have to enter?
Ok so I'm doing third month of the basic beginner routine. Meaning mid October it's time to switch. First time I would ever "complete" a programme, I'll be proud.

However what I notice is I'm done very fast when my exercises. Basically I get in, do my 3 different exercises, and get out. The cardio I do by biking to the gym as
fast as possible (turns out this is also a lot of fun lol).

Am I doing something wrong that I'm done so fast? I'm usually done in 30 minutes. But most people lifting seem to still be there when I leave even though I arrived
later.
I've been trying to cut for a couple months now, and just can't see to get my weight to drop. It's not really going up, but it's definitely not going down. I've been lifting
5 times a week, and trying to eat as cleanly as I can. I have a desk job, and I do zero cardio throughout the week. My question is, what can I do, exercise-wise, to
maybe help drop some pounds? If I were to cut back to lifting 3 days a week, and introduce HIIT 2 times a week, would that help, or should I continue to lift 5 days a
week? Not losing weight has been frustrating.

&#x200B;

EDIT: I eat 1,800 calories a day. I'm 6'1" and weigh 220lbs.
Im trying to consume this whey protein i bough asap, instead of the usual 35grams per serving, can i put like 100-200 grams of whey or is it not healthy
How much truth is there to the hypertrophy vs strength rep range thing? Is there any use in switching up to something higher? (From 5-8 on compounds and 8x on
isolation to 8-12 everything)
Do you guys keep the same progression scheme when cutting or do you just try to maintain rep strength?
Can someone explain lifting at maintenance to me. I have been doing a PPL routine for about 6 months and am happy with with the results. I am now looking to
focus on cardio and endurance running as I frankly enjoy it far more than lifting weights. I would like to keep the gains I have made and at 55 know resistance
training is important for overall health but have no idea of what I should be doing, ie maintaining muscle mass and minimizing chance of injury. All the info in the
wiki seems focus on hypertrophy and strength gain.
If i was to do 2 cycles of the BtM program, do I need to increase my TM again for the new cycle like I did in week 4?
[deleted]
What can I add to Greek yogurt to make it more flavor some? I had been eating the Oikos triple zero but it’s way cheaper to buy Greek yogurt.
How do I know the weight of a bar? I work with an app that tells me how much to press including the bar, but my gym has different bars which are unmarked, so i
have no way of telling. Embarrassed to ask haha.
Weekly stupid questions thread. Seems like the right place for this.

I'm running a 5/3/1 variant that uses 5's progression. Unfortunately, neither of the books I have actually detail 5's progression (Wendler's a solid coach... but a lousy
editor).

I know that 5's progression is just using 5 reps every time regardless of the week, but I'm not sure about AMRAP sets. Do you still do AMRAP sets on 5's
progression?
Just completed 2 weeks of GZCLP and my problem with it is it's too easy. For example take my workout I did today:
T1: Squat 5x3reps Last set AMRAP
T2: Bench 3x10reps
T3: Bent over barbell row 3x15reps last set AMRAP

I'm not sure whether I should be tired or not after the workout but when I finish I don't feel like I did enough. The weight I am using is not a problem because I tested
out my rep maxes before hand. Could anyone advise me on what I may be doing wrong? Thanks
Appropriate attire for a general staff position interview at a gym?
Recovery strategies for extreme DOMS? I climbed a 13k’ mountain yesterday and my legs are so, so sore. Sore to the touch, takes me a few steps from sitting to
be able to even stand correctly and walk normally. Doing the grandpa walk a lot today.
So I’ve been hitting the gym and eating healthier for 3 months and I’ve lost 33 pounds and while I lost fat in my arms,legs and face and to an extent my belly

My question is I still have belly fat, what do I need to do in order to focus on losing that remaining belly fat?
I am more overweight than I’ve ever been in my life and I have not worked out in years. I’m sick of it and I need to get off the couch. What should I do to get a
routine going that I can see some progress? I know “just get off the couch”. I just haven’t been able to keep the drive going when I do try to start a routine.
Is doing the ab roller 6 days a week overtraining the abs? I’ve heard abs can take a beating and still recover well anyone know if thats true?
So I want to have a very muscular carved out of stone physique and I need to know am I doing the right stuff starting with my diet.
Also to give insight I’m 21 years old, 5’4 & 130 pounds and my goal is to get very muscular and about 150 pounds.

I never really eat processed foods I cook everything I eat.

Breakfast I eat slow cooker steal cut oats with a vanilla protein shake with fruit.

Then For lunch I eat sheet pan sausage and veggies/ I also switch the type of veggies up every week so I won’t get bored eating the same thing/ 1 week I’ll put
sweat potatoes and squash then the next week I’ll put red potatoes and bell peppers

Also if anybody can think of another sheet pan protein besides sausage let me know please.

Then after that I eat a container of pasta.
I switch up the type of pastas I eat every week/ 1 week Ill eat Italian pasta salad then the next I’ll make primavera pasta salad then Greek pasta salad after that

Then for snacks I make homemade peanut butter protein balls and frozen yogurt bark with fruit in it.

Then I’ll eat some fruit like an apple or grape fruit or banana

Then I might drink a protein shake after that

Then finally for dinner I eat a chicken recipe with a different type of creamy sauce every week with veggies like spinach and green beans and potatoes.

Example: 1 week I’ll make creamy Dijon chicken and teriyaki chicken then the next week I’ll eat creamy sun dried tomato Parmesan chicken and chipotle adobo
chicken. The veggies I add depend on the type of chicken marinade.

I also drink lots of water through out the day

That’s all I eat through the day.

For my workouts Mon/Wed/Friday I do biceps and triceps and legs

Then Tuesday/Thursday I do chess and back

Every day I do 100 push ups and 60 sit ups.

Is there anything I should add or anything I can tweek. Fitness and being muscular is a deep passion of mine. I like looking good lol.
This is a gym etiquette question.

&#x200B;

I was stretching looking at the mirror maybe 30ft in front of me, and some women standing 2ft in front of the mirror was doing body weight squats and lunges. Every
time she squatted down, the fabric on her red mesh shorts would stretch and have the transparency of pantyhose, she also wasn't wearing underwear. Every squat!

&#x200B;

Would you tell her?

&#x200B;

I ended up telling her and kind of regret it
I've recently swapped to trap bar deadlifts. I don't do any conventional deadlifting. Am I missing out on anything as a result of this?
Is it bad for the elbow joint if I use the barbell triceps extension? It always feel like I will tear my joint if I go heavier with the barbell triceps extension and since I just
having barbell at my house, I can not go for dumbbell option. I've tried skull crusher too and it's not so different from the standing one
My lower back and hips are incredibly tight and are effecting my ROM. What are acceptable machine replacements for squats that I can sub? until I loosen back up
J&T2.0 - trying to beat old RM's, are you supposed to always succeed in that? I've hit 122.5kg for 4 reps in squats, last week I hit 120 for 6 reps. Today I could
barely muster 4 reps for 120kg. Does it matter much? Or is it a daily RM everytime that's more important?
Hit a new bench pr today (205x2, yay), but I've come to notice that my wrists aren't very stable nearing my training max (185 and up). When benching at higher
weights, although I'm keeping my wrist straight, the bar sometimes ends up rotating slightly back and forth so I have to compensate and it just feels wobbly. Do you
guys have any ideas on what I can do to try and get my wrists more stable or should I buy some wrist wraps?
For deloads, I read that you should lower the weight to around 50% of your normal workload. How about the weight on exercises where you (partially) lift your
bodyweight like pull-ups, dumbbell lunges, bulgarians, etc.?
How much cardio per week is actually enough? I keep seeing anywhere from 75 minutes, 150 minutes and 300 minutes. What should the goal be?
Is there legitimately a benefit from assisted stretching, particularly of having someone help push your unbent legs past 90 degrees at the waist, thus stretching your
hams/glutes/lower back?


 I have been doing and improved at BW tricep extensions, bench press and pseudo planche push ups (all to failure and in the rep range of strength and
hypertrophy), but the standart push up reps (which were already in endurance rep numbers to failure) won't increase. So it is endurance but not strength issue am I
right?
workouts for leg endurance for mountaineering? I've been doing DL and squats and lunges and single leg DL/squat for months. Climbed a 13k mountain yesterday
(6000k' elevation gain over 6 miles, then back) and my legs are fucking smoked.
[removed]
Hey does anyone know any good insulated containers? Like something I could make French toast on the stove and then store in & keep warm?
For GZCLP, roughly how much lighter should you start your T2s vs the corresponding T1 lift?
Does doing cardio really help you lose weight during a cut? Or is it just good for you but not really a weight loss helper?
Very moronic question- suitable for this thread :)

I was wondering what weight exercises are best for training abs and obliques too? I do quite a lot of ab exercises with dumbells + ankle weights already (weighted
jacknives, weighted leg raises, weighted russian twists etc) as well as weighted HIIT and running. But I would like to give other weight exercises a go- perhaps
deadlifts, perhaps bench... I would love to know which of these exercises work out the abs the best too, when done properly. I have already started doing hanging
leg raises, which I'm seeing results from :)
I moved some heavy ass boxes this weekend and I feel sore in a great way. This is how I expect/want to feel after workouts. What’s the secret? I feel like I’m
missing something.
How do you over head barbell press?

Do you load up on the floor and lift it up to your chest then press?

Or is it okay to load up in a squat rack so the bar is at the right height? I’m new to the gym and don’t want to look like an idiot in the squat rack not squaring.

Also, this isn’t for heavy weights, idk how much I can do but probably 60lbs and I can easily get that from the floor to my chest.
Does anyone have a good warmup for testing 1rm on things like the bench and squat? Last warmup I tried, I felt too tired and worked by the time I got to the 1rm
attempt. Got anything that gets the muscles ready without overworking? Thank you in advance!
Is it normal to get bruises and stretch marks while working out? I haven’t really lost or gained any weight but I’ve gotten a lot of stretch marks on my lower body and
have bruises all over my thighs/legs
[deleted]
I saw this video the other day saying that training legs on machines is as good as using free weights. For example Leg Pressing instead of Squatting. Also, prevents
injuries.

That said, when should I go for squats instead of Leg Presses and other machines?

\[EDIT: The video [https://www.tiktok.com/@coacheugeneteo/video/7009959722514189570]
(https://www.tiktok.com/@coacheugeneteo/video/7009959722514189570)

It says: prioritize, sorry.\]
Hello everyone! I'm 5'4 and my weight is playing around 175-180lbs. I've been working out for more than year now but weight loss progress has been slow (weighed
215lbs around May of last year). I tried a caloric deficit but definitely felt weaker so I'm just trying to maintain a 2,500 caloric intake.

Anyway, I adapted this [workout routine](https://imgur.com/a/L67N7XY) a couple of months back and in terms building muscle, there is some progress. I'm only
using a 5lbs-20lbs dumbbell cause it's the only one I have.

Just curious if any of you guys has some tips. Thanks!!
I just ate 2700 calories in one meal after a hard workout. My goals are to bulk up. Is there any serious disadvantage to all of these calories being taken in from a
single meal?
I’m 6 weeks deep into my workout but I’m not feeling the benefits, seriously inquiring all jokes aside please, an example today was chest day, I was doing chest flys
15 lb dumbbells I can lift 30 doing Arnold presses, but when doing chest flys 15 lbs is taxing doing 30 straight reps (yes I’m aware I should be splitting them to do
others hence why it’s a superset, but the silver feet specials keep hogging equipment to converse at planet fitness) should I continue going with the lighter weights
or go with my max?
I have been doing the 531 BTM for five weeks now this is the final week. I wanted to repeat this circuit but I feel really heavy now. My midsection has amassed a lot
of fat and I wanted to get rid of that before continuing bulking again. I didn't really get "big" big ( I'm 5'11" male and weigh 183 ibs) but I just feel fat. Idk if cutting
down will shrink my arms again . What should I do? If you suggest cutting what training circuit should I follow now? I didn't really see a circuit for maintaining
muscle while cutting fat down. And if tou suggest I build my own, what template should I follow (i.e one compound mvmnt & then isolation)? Advice greatly
appreciated!!
I have skinny arms and just started lifting 15 lbs in each dumbbell (I was doing 10 lbs before). The thing is, I'm not feeling any burn. My arms "tire out" much sooner
(after about 6 reps), but it doesn't hurt. What could be the reason behind that and what can I do?
Can I build muscle with machines only? I’m a gym newbie and I want to be able to create a routine that I can consistently do, and I personally don’t enjoy the free
weights at all.
Hey guys, I'm running 531 Coffinworm, and got a question


I'm at the anchor atm, and my PRs show that I probably have to reset my TM (max 4 reps on Squat and DL, max 2-3 reps on bench and press).



So now I'm thinking about how to tackle this. Should I take three steps back, as Jim recommended in his older books (15kg for squat and DL, 7.5 for Bench and
press) and then continue. Or should I just go back one step and then continue?



Regardless, what's the "best" (or better: your preferred) program to run after Coffinworm? While I like it, especially since it pushes me to do my TM, I'm not sure
running it again would be the best idea, since it feels pretty Hardcore, even with the build-in deload (even though with taking weight off my TM, I'd probably manage
better than I do now)



Thanks guys
How do you go about learning to program for a macrocycle? Please don't pepper me with the "wiki is all you need". I'm trying to understand how to go about
tailoring training for myself in the future, but how coaches pick what blocks/mesocycles to use for the macrocycle is a mystery to me. Are there any good reads on
this?
Why you need to do assistance exercises like curls etc on a cut when you cant build muscle anyway?


Cant i just do compounds til i end my cut
What time does your gym close? I feel like in my area gyms close far too early, why is it so hard to find a gym that opens till midnight?
I used to be in shape, then stopped working out over COVID time and gained probably 50lvs. Now ive lost probably 20lbs and starting to workout again. Im doing
incline walks to lose fat instead of lifting. Is thet fine?? My main goal right now is just to be able to run and play basketball without hurting my knees. Is weight lifting
necessary? I ask because with weight lifting, I run out of energy to do cardio
Is there any issue drinking a protein shake before or during my workout?
[deleted]
Anyone actually prefer 3x6 vs 5x5 for main lifts?
I plateaued at 5x5 for quite some time, so I switched to a slightly heavier weight but at 3x6 and have broken my plateau. I feel that less sets but heavier weight
works better than a standard 5x5 for low rep main lifts.
I am 16. Been on a bulking diet for 3-4 months. I am getting a lot of face acne even tough im eating relatively clean. Is the acne cause of bulk diet or puberty. I drink
3 l water and wash and clean my face everyday.
Did a pretty exhausting full body workout yesterday but had trouble sleeping, probably only got about 4-5 hours sleep. I read that muscle actually breaks down from
sleep deprivation, rather than builds up. Does this mean that my gainz are not only wasted but in fact my muscle is even more diminished than before (due to the
damage the muscles experienced during the workout + the loss of muscle from sleep deprivation), or will I be able to recuperate them with a good nights sleep
tonight?
Why do I insist on still training with a bad shoulder..
it hurts to do any chest exercises and shoulder press exercises
Everything else is fine but it’s not going away quickly and I try to jump back in too early
I have run out of weight on the hip abduction machine. I have been putting a 25lb weight on top of the 305lbs max setting and I am reaching the 40 rep range. Does
anybody know how to make this machine harder or add more weight?
21m, 5'6, 160lbs. 19% bodyfat. I'm on a 500 cal. Deficit trying to cut and have lost a significant amount of fat from January (been working out at least 4-5 times a
week since march, do 6 days a week now from about mid July). I want to have more emphasis on building a V taper but not sure if I'm going about it the right way. I
do a 3 day PPL split 2x a week, here's what that looks like:

PUSH- Incline DB press- 3x12-8, Bench Press- 3x12-8, Arnold Press- 5x5, Tricep pushdown SS Lateral raises- 3x12-8, Dips- 3x12-8, Overhand wrist curl- 3x12-8

PULL- Chin ups- 3x5 (then do 2 more steps till failure, I'm still kinda fat), BB shrugs- 3x12-8, Face Pulls- 5x15/12/10/8/5, T Bar row- 3x12-8, Hammer Curls- 3x12-8,
Underhand wrist curl 3x12-8 (I replace the T bar row with deadlifts on Fridays)

LEGS- Leg Press- 3x12-8, Hamstring Curls- 3x12-8, Leg Extensions- 3x12-8, Calf Raises- 3x12-8


Any suggestions? I've basically adjusted this program over time since April (I was doing 5x5 before) and I'm quite happy with it, but I want to build a better frame,
which I'm aware is hard on a cut. I've been living at my parents' since covid hit so this is based on the limited equipment available at the nearest gym, and also I
have mild scoliosis, which is why I can't do a lot of squats.


Thanks for reading guys, apologies for the text wall lol.
https://www.reddit.com/r/guessmybf/comments/pwbjg9/22\_m\_59\_185lbs\_havent\_been\_to\_the\_gym\_in\_a\_long/



What do you think my BF% is?
Are squats without weight effective, for example is you do 100 squats on your leg day, will it have some benefits similar to weighted low reps squats?
[removed]
[deleted]
Thoughts on exercising while having a cold or sick? I’ve heard some people say it helps and others against it. I’m looking to go on a bike ride today but sick with
what I think is a cold
Is this silly?

Warm up with 35s, but most you are lifting that day is say, 55 on each side \[35 + (2)10s **\~or\~** 45 + (1)10\] .

Even though it'd be more "efficient" to just load the 35, warmup, then add the subsequent 10s and finish your lifts... you swap out the 35s to 45s... just so you can
see a "plate" there?
[deleted]
So I’m about to max out my apartments dumbbells for some exercises (like bench press 2x50lbs). I intend on subscribing to a gym (Golds Gym).

It’s been about 8 years sense I did any barbell training; so should I get a personal trainer for form / safety? Or should I be fine? I typically don’t push 100% effort in
most of my lifts except for once a month. So failure isn’t something I deal with normally.
Is it more effective to do 1 ab exercise everyday, or 1 more well rounded core day a week?

&#x200B;

I do 4 day rotation, PPL and cardio on the 4th day. Lately I've been throwing in 3x8 hanging leg raises to do a little core work at the end of every PPL day
What do we think about JONNI SHREVE's programming and recommendations? I've been wanting to mix it up a bit and his routines seem very reasonable.
When it comes to reps, do you go in order of 12,10,8 or 8,10,12
I've been lifting for 2-3 years and probably wasted my noob gains (followed Reg Parks 5x5 for a while, then ended up making my own X day splits - currently on 4
days). I want to switch to an actual, focused routine, as I've totally stalled at the gym. I want to lift for strength and aesthetics, while also losing weight/recomping at
minimum, so not an ideal combination. I'm leaning towards a customised version of GZCLP but worried about being unable to progressively overload. Are these
dumb worries? Should I just go for it or is there a routine better suited for my vanity goals?
How deep do you guys go on seated barbell press? I’ve been going until my arms are at a 90 degree angle but I’ve recently read some material saying you should
go down to your clavicle but upon further research I’ve read some people do it the way I do. Any input would be appreciated.
When I tense my quad muscles they start to cramp up after a few seconds…normal or am I deficient in magnesium etc?
Should I hit upper / lower splits, target specific muscle groups or something different entirely? Been working out for about two years working chest / tri, back / bi,
legs, shoulders but started to plateau heavy and switched to upper / lower the last few months. Any insight?
i come home after a 12 hour shift. almost 7am - 7pm. have to exercise, eat and take a nap after reaching home.

but i usually end up eating a big meal, going directly to sleep and not wake up till the morning. i do a very light breakfast and can't/don't eat at work. one of the
reason I'm very hungry at the end of the day.

my question would be , how can i exercise after reaching home. I'm afraid, going right through the exercise will delay the meal even more and if i eat first, before
exercise. I'm too full to do any.
please if anyone can help
I don’t know if at this point genetics are against me, but I have trouble seeing consistent upper arm gains. I have a few years under my belt but my arms don’t care
about intensity, volume, frequency or intensity techniques. They remind me of a stubborn mule that has its own pace no matter what you do.

I have success with smaller muscle groups like shoulders or even forearms. Does getting legit big guns no fatceps or so really take that long? How has your
progress with arms so far been since you picked up weightlifting?
Weight confusing me

About 3/4 weeks ago I got covid pretty bad I started about 113lbs and then while I had covid I had no taste and no appetite so never ate more then 1000 calories
most days and dropped to 110lbs - since I’ve recovered and finally back in the gym I’ve been eating my previous calories before I had covid (I was on a small cut to
110lbs) and so have been eating a weekly average each day of 1400 calories, which is about 500 less then where I maintain yet somehow I’ve gained to 118lbs! I’m
super confused and I’m only a small person so surely a whole 8lbs can’t be water weight! I track calories and macros strictly too and weigh everything and have lost
weight successfully in the past so?
do people still run nSuns? The sub doesn't seem to be active and I can't find many posts on this sub in the last year or so
Ive read some weird gym workout regimes that have me questioning mine.. can you guys critique my workout schedule: I go 6 days a week, been about a month in.

Mon: Biceps/Back/Abs

Tue: Tri/Chest/Lovehandles

Wed: Shoulders/Legs/Trapz

Thurs: Mon sch

Fri: Tue sch

Sat: Wed sch

Sun: Rest
What's your daily routine AROUND working out? I have always wanted to go to the gym every day and I'm curious as to how other ppl do it.

(1) do you have to drive/walk/bike to your gym or is it in your building? how long is your commute there?

(2) do you cook a meal every day? i spent 1-2 hrs cooking dinner when i finish work, i'm wondering if that's why i have a hard time working out.

(3) what time does work start for you? do you work 9-5 or some other rhythm? do you workout before work? how long is your work commute?

(4) how much time do you have, after gym, housechores, etc. to just relax before bed? an hour? two? when is your bed time? do you just normally go to the gym
after work, eat dinner, and then basically go to bed? is someone else cooking and doing chores for you so you have time to go to the gym?

(5) how much time do you spend at the gym? 1hr? 2? including getting dressed, or showering, etc. how much time cumulative if you include your commute?

basically i'm wondering if there's something about my life i need to "cut" to allow myself to go to the gym every day: whether i should be ordering in more or
mealprepping to cut down on cooking time, whether i just have too high expectations of how much non-gym time i should have before bed, etc?
Hey accidentally ate too little the past two days, should I go back to eating like my tdee spreadsheet says or eat above to make up for it?

I’m ik track to lose 2.8 lbs this week when I want to lose 2
I've been doing strength training for years with short, burst style cardio (f. e. HIIT), and I want to start running. What's a good routine for starting off? Should I just
run a certain distance at a set speed or do time attack? Also, how many times a week can/should I run to balance it with regular strength training (5 days a week
with different body parts on each day)?
Is there any risk to going too light on my squat TM for BTM? I want to get better depth and explosiveness then I historically have, but I am concerned the lighter
weight might not stimulate muscle growth effectively

Would the composition of my weight gain be different?
What's the most cost efficient way to get protein and calories as a snack on the go? Just plain-ass peanuts?
When should I do cardio? People always say after I workout, but like how long? I mainly go for muscle building, and I’m still a little chubby so I know I need at least
some cardio to lose fat, so should I run like a few hours after a workout or not even the same day as a workout or what
[removed]
I'm looking to run an actually defined program for the first time rather than something I made up myself. What should I use to determine if id classify myself as a
beginner or intermediate? I have been lifting consistently since about March this year with fairly high volume / intensity (probably too much volume which is why I
have been stalling lately), so I think I could handle an intermediate program. But im not sure if theres some strength standards that are normally associated with
these that I probably wouldnt hit in which case it would make more sense to go with a beginner one. My goal is definitely hypertrophy over strength if that makes
any difference (I am aware that they are highly correlated in initial stages of training)
Feeling of stretch in neck/trapz area when doing dumbell curls, or similar exercises. Normal? Any fix?
Is it normal to get weaker during a cut? I feel as if my bench performance went up when I first started and now is slowly dropping over time. Might just be me.
Alright so for context I’m 5’6 and 165~ pounds and I go to the gym about 3-4 days a week and I know for my height and weight ratio you’d expect me to be like
either overweight or buff but I feel like I look more skinny fat than anything. I have some muscle definition on my arms but it’s not much to show off. I feel like I have
excess fat to lose but if I lose that I’m afraid I’ll lose the muscle I’ve gained or just look skinnier than I already am. However I’m also nervous to start a bulk because
I’m afraid I’ll look really overweight rather than swoll. Idk what to do
Is it normal to feel the lower back right after a squat workout? I dont think its an injury because i can do my normal life without any issues but i feel some pain more
on the right side more if i am seated at a chair. i feel alot better if i laydown on the bed even if i go for a walk it doesnt feel so bad, the worst is when i am seat down
at a chair
I joined a ball hockey league this fall where we play on foot on pavement, so the pace is a lot like basketball. This is a decently competitive league so I would like to
condition for it to both become a better player and to avoid injury.

A friend of mine recommended HIIT, but I have no experience with it. I would like to hire a personal trainer to establish a routine and get my bearings but I haven't
had any sort of gym membership ever and have no idea how to look for what I want or research the best options.

Where should I start?
So my life is fairly sedentary, I work an office job. My diet isnt the greatest either as there is alot of takeout. I eat about 1800-2000 cals a day on average for a 170lbs
5'7 female (23 age). Obviously im overweight.

Anywho, i have recently added exercise into my daily routine for 4 days a week (2 30 min cardio, 2 1 hour full body weight lift) but have not changed my diet. Will I
see any changes, such as weight loss, just by exercising without changing diet?
I am getting ready to cut and have been lifting on wendler 531. Any suggestions on maintenance lifting routines? Should I just keep trying to progress on the 531
while cutting? Should I just lift the same compounds at a certain % of my 1RM? Open to suggestions thanks!
How do I figure out how wide to have my feet when I squat?
Where do you guys get your t-shirts to workout in? I'm not talking the Nike dry fit ultra pro type stuff I'm talking just cheap ass cotton t-shirts. In college/high school I
was just picking up free shirts to source the gym forever but that well has gone dry entering the corporate world especially while WFH.
I have pretty consistent pain in my shoulders and neck. I don't have a pre-existing condition but it is something I have noticed over the years. Shoulders get tight,
neck cracks and all of that. I figured that I was just weak and needed to work on it. Now its been about 7 months of pretty consistent weight lifting and its still
happening.

Today for example, I did bench press, lat pull downs and butterfly ... things.. you know, where you have the weights on both sides and extend arms wide, pull the
weights in front of you while keeping arms extended. Anyway, did all of those and wanted to finish with some dips. And that was when i heard my shoulders crack
some and you know the pain. Its not baaadddd, but its pretty rough you know?

I know I really don't have the right vocab to describe what I am experiencing so I guess im just asking... is this normal? Have you experienced something like this
and how did you overcome it?
Do you add something to your oatmeal to make it satiating?

I usually make porridge with 100g rolled oats and water, then add 30g protein powder and 20g peanut butter as an afternoon meal. But it has never filled me up the
way some people say they are full after eating oats.

It comes out to roughly 600 calories this way with 43g protein, 63g carbs and 20g fat.
If regular barbells are more comfortable for my wrist i should use them instead of the ez bars right? Theres no difference in the muscle group worked or anything of
that sort or am i missing something
So I'm 3months post a hard concussion and I cant do any lifting at all, and prob wont for another couple of months.


Ive lost so muscles, but it is what it is.

My question: Should I be in a calorie decifit and get rid of belly fat while i cant hit the gym or should surplus to not lose as little muscle as possible?
Confused about the role of the pecs in Bench press. Correct form has the scapula pinned, but surely the main role of the pecs is to contract and bring the shoulders
forwards and separate the scapula? Can't really see how it causes arm adduction more effectively than that?
Running Metallicadpas PPL via a spreadsheet I got from liftvault. Noticed that deadlift progression is 10 lbs but squat is only 5, is that a mistake with the
spreadsheet or by design?
[removed]
I feel like I have no appetite when I wake up in the morning. All I can really eat is sweet stuff like fruits or oats so it’s making it hard for me to hit my protein goals.
Anyone have experience with this? What can I do to stimulate my appetite?
I’ve been cutting for a while and would like to start bulking in the coming weeks. Should I eat at maintenance for a bit before eating in a surplus? How long should I
eat at maintenance?
People who work out in the early morning, how long until you got used to the early morning routine?

My gym is packed at even 8pm now. Can't get a bench at all.
For me, my willpower and "motivation" will always fail at some point. It's necessary to establish a discipline and routine and just mindlessly stick to it regardless of
how I'm feeling. If I think too much or have to make it up as I go I'll start doing lots of unhealthy things, so I just take that choice away from myself via preparation
and routine.
All the responses here nailed it, but one I read a couple days ago really spoke to me when I was dealing with the death of my grandfather and could not be troubled
to eat well, train, etc. and it was something along the lines of:

“The gym is not a play date. It’s not going to be fun all the time, you aren’t going to want to do it. Same with eating well; sure enjoy the junk once in a while, but treat
fitness like an **appointment**. You don’t ask yourself if you’re motivated to go to the dentist; it’s just on your calendar and it’s something you need to get done. The
gym is an appointment.”

And obviously it’s easy to read that and have it make sense, but as soon as I confronted the fact that most times I really didn’t want to go to the gym [motivation], it
actually pushed me to go more because I wasn’t basing my decision off my desire to go. I was basing it off an unemotional requirement to do what I needed to do
[appointment].
I go to the gym, with the goal of sitting there for at least five minutes. If I start working out that's a bonus, but I go to spend five minutes there

Tim Pychyl is worth listening to. He's a researcher on procrastination. He says to to deal with procrastination by looking at the next smallest thing you need to do ti
go where you want and just do that. What is the first thing you need to do to go to the gym? Pack your bag. After you've done that what is the next thing? Put on
your shoes. Focus on the next task rather than the end goal. To me this applied to "not feeling like it".

Motivation is nothing. You're already as motivated as you ever will be and that led you to aski this question. You need habits and strategies. I recommend Atomic
Habits too
I always just make myself and say even if j just finish my main compound exercise for the day nd come home quickly it's a win, normally I end up doing at least one
more in top of that.
I don't have to go to the gym today, I get too.
Pretty much.
Yes. And yes.
Sure, as long as its a known brand or from a known store, just to be sure the quality control is good. It's pretty cheap anyway
Best thing you can do for yourself as a beginner is to stick to a recommended program. You don't need the same effort on every set to see progress. The
fundamental principle is overload, not the specifics of effort in a single set. Following a program makes sure you're overloading.
Either.
Also just try harder, over time the difference between your first and third set won’t be that big.
They are awesome but also fucking horrible. So that's probably why, people don't like to suffer
cant load em as heavy
Two bananas with coffee sounds great. Many people want some fast acting carbs. I sometimes just have a bowl of cereal. I tried PB toast with a banana on it but
felt like it sat in my stomach. Experiment and see what works for you.
Fast acting carbs plus a moderate serving of protein. Bananas are a great option, could have it with some fat free yoghurt or a protein shake. I generally avoid
anything that's going to sit in my stomach for a while. I wouldn't over think it, do what works for your lifestyle, but that's the general recommendation.
I've had oatmeal work to good effect for something light, but still give some good energy. Maybe a small protein shake.
I prefer something small and easy to digest that gives me some carbs. Two bananas sounds like a good idea to me
From my experience, whatever won't make you feel sick when you're working out
There is no objective best thing to eat before a workout in the morning. Some do better fasted, some do better on a meal, what kind of meal varies.

You just have to experiment on yourself.
Because it has amraps and a lot of volume. Starting a strength program at your max effort is a sure way to fail too soon.
Having done it in the past - because of the high volume/number of sets, and that the difficulty ramps up quickly. If you really blast out that 1+ set, then next week
you could have 17+ sets all increase (the main lift day, plus the volume day, depending on which particular plan you pick)
If you're strong enough to do it, it'll auto calibrate to something higher. Give it some time to get settled in
I'm running nSuns right now. When I started, the weights did feel low, but within a few weeks they'll be really hard, trust me. There eventually comes a point where
the training maxes are more than your actual 1 rep maxes.
You can switch now if you want. Or add a few drop down sets somewhere between 60 and 80% of your max. Or add some accessories.
Track your calories. Then eat less of them.
How many calories are you eating per day? And if your weight hasn't changed for a few months, how did you adjust your caloric intake to match that plateau?
You need to eat fewer calories.
I definitely wouldn’t switch up your routine drastically, there is no real way for any of us to know if the net calorie burn will push you more towards a deficit or not. If
you want to do it through exercise then the most reliable way will be to add some cardio on top of whatever you are doing.

However, to be quite honest 5 days of lifting if you are not just screwing around should be more than enough exercise to keep your metabolism up. You really
should re-consider your diet and reduce calories further. If you are at or close to net 0 calories right now then you are gonna need to do a lot of cardio to push that
to the standard loss of 1lb/week (~3500 calories worth). Ask yourself if that’s worth it vs. just reducing portions or cutting out some snacks, because for most people
the latter is a lot more efficient
Eat less or move more. It is very, very simple.
First off: why?

Anyway, I don’t think my body would appreciate being subjected to such a bizarre diet, but you can try it and see how it goes.
You could, not sure why you'd want that tho. Better to spread it out throughout the day. The protein farts with those amounts of whey must be horrible.
fine as long as it doesnt mess with your stomach
It’s not going to hurt you as long as this isn’t meant as a long term diet, but it’s a waste of protein. Your body can only process like, what, 45 grams at a time? Just
seems like it’s better to just maximize your bang for your buck, even if it tastes gross.
[deleted]
Why not try some alternate uses for it, like baking with it?
https://www.strongerbyscience.com/hypertrophy-range-fact-fiction

Some, but not as much as people try to make you believe.
When gaining, I push volume. When losing, I push intensity
I generally keep everything the same, but will often push harder mentally to make rep PRs while cutting if my 1RM is lessened.
I try to add reps more conservatively when cutting to insure that I don't plateau as hard.

Say I'm squatting for 4x8-12 reps. When I'm maintaining or bulking I might just go all-out trying to get more reps, whereas when I'm cutting I'll plan more ahead to
just get one or two more reps per session depending on how the current and last session felt.

When bulking:

Week 1: 100 kg x 10, 10, 9, 8
Week 2: 100 kg x 12, 11, 10, 9
Week 3: 100 kg x 12, 12, 12, 12
Week 4: 105 kg x 9, 8, 7, 7
...

When cutting:

Week 1: 100 kg x 10, 10, 9, 8
Week 2: 100 kg x 10, 10, 10, 9
Week 3: 100 kg x 10, 10, 10, 10
Week 4: 100 kg x 11, 10, 10, 10
...
Personally, I keep the same progression scheme; however, I add a cardio session every morning.
I try to show stronger when cutting, and get stronger/bigger when bulking.
I’m cutting for the first time on 5/3/1 right now and it’s a pretty good system for knowing if I’m maintaining/losing/gaining. I got my TMs to a pretty balanced spot
before I started and recorded my rep counts for each week. I am holding my TMs constant for the duration and I know now the minimum number of reps I need to
get to not have lost rep strength
There's really nothing to it. Pick any good program you like, or continue with the same one you've been doing. Your progress will just be slower than while bulking,
and less visually noticeable than while cutting.

While on a bulk you can handle more volume because of the increase in calories, and less while cutting because of the decrease in calories. Maintenance is
somewhere in the middle.

Maintenance is kind of like a punch the clock workout. Do what you have to do, make progress where you can.
If you don't want to progress but want to keep up the weight training would it not just make sense to follow the same workout but keep your weight abs reps the
same each time you train?
>Can someone explain lifting at maintenance to me.

You lift, but you don't gain weight. It requires less volume to maintain muscle than build it, so you can probably focus less on it, but how much volume you need,
you can only figure out by trying.
What made you think you wouldn’t need to increase the TM?
If you want bigger and stronger calves, yes.
I add a small spoonful of jam or preserves. Blueberry is my favorite.
Oats, fruit, nuts
I like pecans (chopped small) and honey.
Protein powder - mixes in so well! My favourite is chucking in some chocolate or vanilla powder, some chocolate chips, and basically having a bowl of protein angel
delight!
I add frozen mixed berries to mine. 30 seconds in microwave to thaw slightly (or in a dish overnight in the fridge) then mix into the yoghurt. The frozen ones thaw
with a little bit of juice which when mixed with the yoghurt turns it pink and adds the berry flavour throughout
ask the gym. or stand on the scale with the bar and then without and do the math.
If they are 7ft barbells it's safe to assume they are 20kg/45lbs.
Do the bars feel different in weight?
Women's bars are not very common in commercial gyms and short bars will obviously weigh less.
7'-0" = 45lbs

6'-0" = 35lbs (typically also have a smaller diameter)
5s pro is generally without the amrap.

Focus is instead on pushing the supplemental work.
Nope, 5s PRO is just 5 reps across all sets at the prescribed percentages. No AMRAPs.
You're basically doing the bare minimum of the program. If you want more you can add more T2 and T3 accessory work. You can look up examples for what to add
in the GZCL variations out there, a popular one being jacked and tan.
Have you been progressing as directed by the program?
Have you been progressing as directed by the program?
Chino's and a polo shirt would probably do the trick.
Dark slacks and a dress shirt with no tie if you're a man. Professional pants and blouse if you're a woman. They just want to know that they won't be getting
complaints about your appearance.
Khakis, collared shirt
Move more and wait. It's going to suck for a few days, no getting around that
Jump around. It’ll go away if you start moving.
pop an nsaid or two
Hot and cold therapy obliterates my DOMS, but I've found it's best used preemptively; to minimize or avoid soreness entirely, but it still aids in reducing already
existing DOMS.
keep doing what you're doing, you cant target fat loss, so you just need to lose more weight.
Continue doing what you are doing. Its impossible to spot-remove fat.
Read the wiki and it will give you a lot of information on what to do to lose weight and give you some workout routines to pick from. You need to pick something that
you enjoy doing. If you pick something you look forward to doing then you will be more likely to stick with it.
Couch 2 5k is a good running plan for beginners
I'd recommend just going to the gym and doing whatever you enjoy doing for a few weeks until you're in the habit of going regularly, and then moving into a proper
routine. The important part is that you do go regularly though.
Find the minimum you feel like doing and build from there. Don't show up day 1 and feel like you have to do a complete program. In your case, any movement is
beneficial, so make it as simple and easy as possible. Doesn't even have to be at a "workout" intensity. I am willing to guarantee that once you start moving you will
feel better and start to feel motivated to do more. But not if you go in and try to push it, feel uncomfortable, and are sore the next 5 days.

I had a tooth extracted last Friday and the instructions were no exercise for 5 days. Just to move, in addition to walking the dog, I have been walking on the
treadmill for 60 minutes a day, keeping my heart rate at around 80-85. It's nowhere near my workout intensity, but it's been great. No worrying about what I eat
beforehand, no worrying if I feel up to it that day; just fire up the ipad and chill out for an hour. Burn about 400 net calories so that helps with the other inactivity. I
may keep it up even after I am released at the end of the week.
Try it and see if it works for you
You won’t overtrain no
There's not much evidence that training a muscle more than twice a week builds any more muscle than just training it twice.
I'm a male and wouldn't. That could easily come off as being weird and I don't wanna risk coming off as a pervert who was staring at her ass lol
Nope, mind your own business in the gym. Only time I would approach someone is to ask for a spot, ask how many sets they have left, or if they were doing
something dangerous that could harm other people.
That would be an extremely creepy thing to tell another person
i have a feeling that she knows

and even if she doesnt, i wouldnt do anything
I think about this a lot, I'm a woman so there's less of a creepy factor. Ultimately I usually don't tell people, the thinking is if they have more things to do that day and
are stuck with the outfit they might be mortified.
I would not. Not my responsibility.
All I got from this was that you were staring at some chick's ass rather intently, stop being a creep.
Unless you're planning to compete in a competition where you're expect to pull conventional deadlift, then I wouldn't sweat it at all. It's still a huge deadlift
movement, and any missed hamstring/glute work can be added in separately.
Perhaps some glute and hamstring work, depending on how you perform the trapbar deadlift and the rest of your exercises
If you are doing them right then not really
It's fine. Warm up properly and it should be good. Could also check out JM presses, people have loaded up more than 4 plates without issues.
In my experience not moving causes more stiffness than moving. Unless there is a medical reason for it. If I have tight hips and lower back my biokineticist has me
doing bridges and bridge variations (with pelvic floor activation). But it depends on what's causing the problem. Maybe rather talk to a professional so you don't hurt
yourself.
If anything, not squatting will make your hips even tighter
Squat with a weight you can squat, and work on getting lower. I find goblet squats and hip bridges to also help.
Do you have access to a pendulum squat or belt squat machine?
>trying to beat old RM's, are you supposed to always succeed in that?

It's impossible to always beat RM.

&#x200B;

>Does it matter much? Or is it a daily RM everytime that's more important?

Just do your RM for the day, it's supposed to be self-regulating. At the end of the program, you might have built some muscle, and got a bit stronger. Day to day
doesn't matter.
Wrist wraps help. Squeezing the bar also helps a lot as well as putting the bar in proper position and trying to internally rotate the palms a bit to screw the bar into
your hand.
I’ve also found the barbell may have a lot to do with it. At my gym the smaller diameter bars tend to give me a similar feeling that you describe. Idk if it’s just
because the collars on the bigger bars don’t rotate as much or if it actually has to do with the diameter, but give a fatter bar a chance if you have options.
Deloads tend to be personal - they're to let yourself recover from fatigue whilst still training. Some like to deload by taking weight off the bar but there are other
ways. Maybe you could just do less volume; two sets instead of three, perhaps, or knock some reps off?
What are your goals?

the 75/150 minute recommendations are minimum baseline recommendations for the sake of long term health, and refer to either 75 minutes of vigorous cardio or
150 minutes of moderate cardio. If you want improved conditioning for any kind of sport or activity, you'll generally benefit from much more and/or much higher
intensity cardio than those recommendations.
Enough for what?
AHA recommendations 150 of moderate intensity or 75 minutes of vigorous cardio, but I'm not sure if that is what "enough" means to you.
I like the minimum goal from Greg Nuckols’ *The Art of Lifting*, which says you should at least do enough cardio to keep your resting heart rate in the 60s. After that
it’s really dependent on your fitness goals.
Yes. Some stretches are hard to do by yourself.
Do you have access to a stair master? That would probably give you a decent approximation.
Pretty sure anyone would be smoked
Stairmaster or just some long flights of outdoor stairs? Or box step ups in the gym all with a weighted pack.

I cannot recommend Training for the Uphill Athlete by Steve House enough if you want to put an actual program together and get mountain ready for a particular
objective.
I mean that's gonna smoke just about anyone unless you're in the middle of a through hike. Hiking is always going to be harder on you than what you do in the gym,
uneven paths, odd sized steps, carrying weight in a backpack, the elevation gain, it's all going to combine to make it much harder than a gym workout will be. Don't
be too hard on yourself.
Distance running, without a doubt.
[removed]
Just find a weight that you can complete 3x10 reps with
Work your way up to something moderately heavy and progress from there. Doesn't have to be perfect first time. If you get the weight a bit too light, just more space
to improve :)
Completely depends on you and your strength level on the T2s. There is no exact ratio/amount.
you should cardio regardless for cardiovascular health

it can help with weight loss by increasing your deficit. though the majority of a deficit will be accomplished through diet.
I think you're getting obsessive when your criteria for compounds focused towards other muscle groups is ab activation.
I think deadlifts work everything. Any compound lift will to some extent work the core. But farmer's/waiter's walks and pullups are particularly good ones.
Overhead squats and overhead lunges are some compounds with very high core activation.


I don't actually recommend them though- just do your core training separately, and pick compounds based on what your legs and back actually need.
You did something your body wasn't used to, which results in soreness. Chasing that feeling is not useful.
The thing you are missing is that being sore is not an indication of a good workout. If you moved heavy ass boxes every weekend you'd eventually not be sore
afterwards.
You probably worked muscles you normally don't. Try mixing up workouts with new exercises.
Novel stimulus
Soreness isn't a very meaningful indicator.
I use a rack, unless there isn't one, then I clean and press.
Best to use the rack for overhead press. Even though you can get the weight up easily enough you can save the energy for the lift and reduce the chance of injury.
Warm up as you normally would to get to working weights then a single, double, or triple at 80%, a single at 90% then the attempt.
Not sure about the bruises, but stretch marks can happen. Never heard of them happening on the lower body without any weight changes though. I get them
around my shoulder to chest area.
Does your iPod have a notes section?
Use Google sheets
That video was wrong
You have to be careful of any black/white "absolutist" types of statements. A statement like the one you cited might be true under certain circumstances, might not
be true in others. It would be the same thing if someone said "squats are always better than a leg press".

And you can injure yourself on a leg press as well.

In general, the differences between machines and free weights are much less for beginners and start to diverge the longer you lift. If you feel more comfortable with
machines, do machines, free weights, do free weights, want to do both? do both.

IMO, there are advantages to squats that you don't get with a machine, specifically core involvement, balance, and working stabilizer muscles. However, not
everyone is capable of, or feels comfortable doing heavy barbell squats. You aren't limited to one exercise. A person starting out could do something like goblet
squats with lighter weights to get more comfortable with form, but use a leg press to push heavier weights and build more leg strength. Then, as time went on,
maybe switch when you felt more comfortable or not switch at all.
One is not better than the other. Compound movements like squats can be loaded heavier than an isolation exercises and give you a lot of bang for your buck.
They’re also fun.

I’d do whatever your program says. Lots of good programs include squats and leg presses.
Aside from the bloating and maybe not feeling too great, not a ton you're really going to notice. There's a benefit to spreading out the calories and protein over
multiple meals per day, but that's not going to make a huge difference that you're going to notice.
If you’re just starting to build muscle it can take time before you feel burn.

Your muscle form and stamina will improve with time. I can’t recommend enough to focus on your form.
Yes but still recommended you follow a proven program and not create your own, to ensure progress
Yes you can all those things you hear about which is better than which method is for advanced people who have reached a certain level , beginners can build
muscle doing anything.
A lighter TM is pretty much always better. 3 steps will set you up for better success than 1.

I've never run Coffinworm before, but since it has you staying with low reps and high intensity, I'd go the opposite and do something like a BBB variant.
You could maybe use those numbers (4 for squat, 2-3 for bench and press) to recalculate your tm and reset it accordingly.
I don’t know if this is the kind of answer you want, but it depends almost entirely on your goals.

Coaches often plan cycles around and upcoming meet, a competition, event or maybe you just have an arbitrary goal/time in mind.
It’s also generally sport specific/specific to your goals – and that decides what type of blocks you were put into your macro cycle.
So, like I said it’s entirely goal based: what you need by when. Understanding this then helps to decide what type of meso cycles you need and for how long.

Macro cycle blocks would look something like:
• General prep phase: building strength base and or endurance
• Intensity phase: traditional periodisation method of increasing intensity while lowering volume
• Comp phase: sport specific training & low volume
• Transition/recovery: low volume, low intensity and moving into next cycle

Hope this helps!
> Why you need to do assistance exercises like curls etc on a cut when you cant build muscle anyway?

You don't NEED to do anything. But doing assistance may help you retain work capacity and may help you retain more muscle as you lose weight.

> Cant i just do compounds til i end my cut

You can do what you want.
You can build muscle on a cut (depending on other factors). Even if you can't build it, the purpose is to maintain as much lean mass as possible
Like 10 I think? That’s pretty common unless you go to a 24 hour fitness type gym or a college gym, at least in my experience.
If you only want to lose weight and run/play basketball then weight training isn't necessary, just diet and cardio.

If you do want to do some weight training, just do it after cardio or have separate cardio and weights days
You don’t have to do a lot of lifting—2x a week is plenty to make a difference and they don’t have to be long sessions either. As someone else said, trying doing it
after your cardio. I’ve always lifted after cardio and, once I got used to it, never had a problem lifting all I wanted to. It will help you lose weight, play better
basketball, and improve your knees. Obviously, if you hate doing it, you hate it, but you can get a lot of benefits from a 1.5 hr per week (total) time investment.
You don't have to weight lift if you don't want to
There is a good chance you could spill it if you tried to drink while working out.
simple protein shake: no, however a 1000 calorie bulking shake might make you feel sluggish
Just keep going with your cut if you aren’t happy with where you are now. And yeah, it’s common for people to underestimate how much weight they need to lose.
Very common. I can't speak for women, but for men who are really dieting and trying to get lean the first time, I think it is more common than not. There's an old
saying along the lines of "take however much you think you need to lose to look how you want and double it". I think there's a lot of truth in that.



Don't be surprised if you lose that additional 15-20 and still see further to go.
This just doesn’t make sense to me. How do you put on a heavier weight and do more reps?? Sounds like you should have been using that heavier weight for the
5x5.
While I don't think specific rep ranges matter at all I do think fewer, but harder, sets beats more, but easier, sets.
Variation like that is a solid part of long-term programming. Switching from say 5x5 to 3x6 is one way to do that, since you're basically doing 2/3s the volume, which
allows you to push each set further.

I cycle between sets of 8-12, 6-10 and 4-8 for the same reason as it allows the weight to continually go up and when I then do reset, it will be for a noticeably higher
load than last time.
Not medical advice.

Most likely just your body ch-ch-ch-changing.
> I am 16.

There's your problem.
Do you eat or drink a lot of dairy? Could be the issue, pretty common. How often do you wash your pillow? Do you shower before or after going to bed?
I had horrific acne since I was a kid, did multiple rounds of accutane, and still have issues (I'm nearly 50).

Diet changes never did shit, and neither did much of anything else.

The ONLY topical that's ever worked for me -- and I've used many, including many prescribed by dermatologists that didn't do shit -- is OTC Benzoil Peroxide. It's
[cheap as hell](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B00D6XHH4U), and one tube lasts months. Don't get suckered into overpriced trash, and don't believe the "it's the
dairy!!1!" posts.

Also, it's puberty doing it. And the fact that it's hitting you so late (my first round of accutane was age 10) tells me that it's unlikely to be all that bad. Just stay clean,
launder your pillow cases often, and use the generic Benzoil Peroxide.
Cutting out meat and dairy helped me a lot when I was your age. It's quite a change, but it's worth it!
1 night of sleep will not make or break things. Furthermore, I've been getting 5ish hours of sleep for months and seen some of my best growth during that time.

Sleep is good. Get as much of it as you can. Don't stress when you don't. Stress is catabolic.
Sounds like you’re just resting it and expecting it to go back to normal. I used to do the same thing (chronic dislocated shoulder). Best thing I did was see a physical
therapist and work on my form and mobility
There are PPL and bodybuilding splits in the recommended routines in the wiki.

If a V Taper is your priority, you’re going to want a lot more volume in your shoulder work - both overhead pressing and pulling.
I'll guess 20-22%
I’d say approximately 25%.
Its better than nothing but will not have the same effect as training with heavier weights.
Not similar benefits but some benefits for sure

Anything that’s hard on your muscles has benefits
It will benefit your mobility and endurance. It won't benefit you in terms of strength or hypertrophy. At a certain point, "low weight high reps" stops doing anything for
those goals. Otherwise you could curl all day against empty air and still get huge arms
You’ll see flexibility and movement benefits for sure but that’s about it.
Depends on what kind of injury it is. Best to ask a physiotherapist.
Enough for what? It will be great for conditioning and endurance but not for muscle building past a certain point
Commercial gym: fuck off

Home gym: sure

Outside: if away from people
Personally, I would be prepared to ride a bike or do something similarly isolated while I’m slightly ill, but I wouldn’t go to the gym and potentially infect others.
If you don’t have your own gym then this isn’t even a question. You just can’t go. Don’t ruin it for everyone else.

If you have your own gym then sometimes it helps. But if you are very sick then obviously don’t.
I'd probably recommend against biking outside if you have any kind of allergy issues, it could make you feel worse if you end up with a lot of dust, pollen, or car
exhaust in your system.
Meh, it might not be the most efficient way but people do it all the time. A lot of gyms don’t even have 35 lb plates
No its not silly, seeing the big plate on there can be motivating. Do whatever you want, who cares
I would swap, but not for the reason you're stating. You'd be using less plates than if you just keep adding little by little, which, in a public gym, would mean there's
more plates for others to use.
I'm in a women's weightlifting class, and the instructor only keeps 35s in the room and we do all the sets on those. It makes it SO much easier to keep track of your
plate math when you're only adding things to one base weight. Also I hate changing equipment so I try to keep it to a minimum.
I think your reply to someone else’s comment ended up in the main thread somehow
You should be fine, just start reasonably light and post a form check if things don’t feel right. Quality control in the personal training industry is unfortunately really
bad, so there’s not much reason to think hiring a trainer will improve anything unless you’re incredibly selective in your search. Some of them are great, some of
them know so little about barbell training that following their advice will actively make you worse.
Probably not that big of a difference, but I find a small amount of daily ab work to be a lot easier to fit into programming from a practical standpoint.
You can probably find programming out there that is just as effective for free or much less than what he is charging.
I follow what my program says.

If it says 3x8-12, you want to try to hit 12 for every set.
Depends on the program.
Whatever the program says. Some sets it has a strict number of sets and reps and other it's based on RPE.
Noob gains simply mean, the further away you are from your potential, the faster you progress toward them. They aren't a thing that can be wasted.
You can't waste noob gains.
Just try the program and train earnestly. You will stall at some point with any LP program.
As others have said, you can't waste noob gains.

if you've been on a sub par program for a few years, switching to something better will continue noob gains as your body likely won't have been stimulated optimally.

GZCLP is a fantastic program that I'd recommend going on for both bulking and cutting cycles.

Yes. Most of your worries are dumb worries.
I touch my clavicle on all pressing.
You can do it either way. Some people are just too jacked to touch their clavicle.
Not normal in my experience but no way for us to diagnose the problem over the internet.
Splits like UL, PLL or full body are usually better, because you hit each bodypart at least two times a week. Current research indicates, that hitting a muscle group
twice a week is better for hypertrophy than just once a week.

There are some great routines in the wiki, I especially like the Gzcl method. Currently doing his J&T 2.0. Have a look at r/gzcl
Try them out and see what makes you progress again. I was stuck on U/L splits and moved on by using more of a bro split. Perhaps at some point I’ll switch back.
Exercise before work or eat a small meal after work, exercise, then eat a bigger meal.
> reaching home.

strongly advise to stop by gym before u get home.

when u do get home, its almost impossible for anyone without strong dedication to head out. esp after a long shift.
Do some MMA, they're fun, fast and intense workouts.
The key for me was to not sit down or do anything else at home other than prep for exercise. If you can change into your exercise clothes at work, do it so you're
wearing them when you get home. Keep the transition from work to exercise as easy as you can and don't let anything else distract you.
What’s your diet like? Hard to grow arms in a caloric deficit
How much weight have you gained?
You'll hit your lifestyle or program limit way before your genetic limit.

Consider your nutrition and program and aim to be consistent for another year.

Chances are you just need to reevaluate what you're doing in the gym and the kitchen.

Those muscles do tend to develop or grow at a les noticeable rate when compared to your bigger muscles.
1.5x or double your protein intake and focus on long term intensity exercises. Move slower, for longer, and lift heavier. You want to shred your muscle fibers without
putting your muscles on permanent leave.
Either your TDEE is lower than expected or you have been tracking incorrectly.
I didn’t have as nearly of a drastic shift as you but last week I came down with a cold & I was pleasantly surprised to have dropped a pound. I was like, great! Yes! A
little change…but once my cold got better I gained that pound back for a few days lol. The times I’ve been sick and lost weight, usually it goes right back up and
sometimes more when I recover. I do think it’s more likely water-weight
It's very likely water weight, you were probably somewhat dehydrated while sick and now that you've re-started working out your muscles are retaining water.
> The sub doesn't seem to be active

The program's creator realized people were only talking about pointless stuff like "rate my assistance work" so he closed the sub.
[Lift vault's most popular program of 2020 by a long ways.](https://liftvault.com/programs/popular/)
Yes, it is a good program.
That's a somewhat common split, but your split doesn't matter quite as much as your programming.

If you want a good 6 day program just pick one from the recommended routines.
So, I work a physical job as a fork truck driver at a hardware store. My work schedule is all over the place; some days I'll work 1400-2200, other days I'll work 0800-
1500, sometimes it's even worse and it's like 1000-2000.

>(1) do you have to drive/walk/bike to your gym or is it in your building? how long is your commute there?



My gym now is 3 miles away, takes roughly 10 minutes to get there by car. I can bike, but I've noticed a decrease in power output if I do, so I don't. If I want to do
outdoor cardio, there is a local park about 3 miles in the other direction.

>(2) do you cook a meal every day? i spent 1-2 hrs cooking dinner when i finish work, i'm wondering if that's why i have a hard time working out.

Yeah; I grill a piece of chicken on my George Forman Grill and cook a bit of rice and steam a bag of veggies in the microwave. 20 minutes, start to finish, and I can
shower while the chicken & rice cook.

>(3) what time does work start for you? do you work 9-5 or some other rhythm? do you workout before work? how long is your work commute?

Like I said, work schedule varies and so I'll workout before work if I work in the evenings and after work if I work in the mornings. My commute is maybe 10 minutes
because work is just 3 miles down the road. It's hilarious; everything is <5 miles from my house. I prefer working out in the midafternoon - between 1600-1800.

>(4) how much time do you have, after gym, housechores, etc. to just relax before bed? an hour? two? when is your bed time? do you just normally go to the gym
after work, eat dinner, and then basically go to bed? is someone else cooking and doing chores for you so you have time to go to the gym?

I like to be in bed as soon as possible. If I work until 2200, I'll come home, cook dinner & shower, and go straight to bed after eating and doing the dishes. Maybe
2330? I'm never up past 0000. I do all the cooking and cleaning in my house. I clean the house on my days off and keep it picked up in the interim between days
off.

>basically i'm wondering if there's something about my life i need to "cut" to allow myself to go to the gym every day: whether i should be ordering in more or
mealprepping to cut down on cooking time, whether i just have too high expectations of how much non-gym time i should have before bed, etc?

How much TV do you watch? How much phone-screen time do you get? Cut those down and you'll suddenly have TONS of time.

2 hours to cook dinner on a week night? That's excessive. Take your off days and meal prep so you can throw a 2 hour dinner together in 30 minutes. Eat more
simply; there's nothing wrong with steak & mashed potatoes & broccoli or grilled chicken chopped up in a salad.

I sleep between 2330-0700 and at my peak was eating 6000 calories/day while doing brutal 90 minute workouts 3x/wk, 45 minute conditioning workouts 3x/wk, and
running/walking with the spouse 1-2x/wk. If you *really* want to find the time to workout, you'll make it a priority and it will find a way.
1: I usually drive 5 minutes to gym since it near whete i work.
2: I usually prep my breakfast and lunches before i go to bed . Most of the time my lunches are left overs from the night before so i put a portion aside when i dish
up. Usually I take about 30 minutes to cook depending on what i want to eat , or just try make one pot recipes to save time and relax while food is cooking.
3: Work for me starts at 8:30 and ends at 18:00. I usually get to gym at about 6:30 and work out for an hour or so.
4: The flat i stay in is quite small so its a bit easy to maintain. Cooking is usually split between my bf and myself, and if the one cooks the other washes dishes. I
also need to put in study time and complete assessments for a part time course, but most of the taking of notes off of the work given I try to do during my breaks at
work. If i finish that early enough and have nothing to do for the other nights in the week , i usually relax by playing games, reading or watching netflix or youtube.
And I usually always go to sleep at 10pm to be able to wake up at 6 the next morning.

I feel that with a daily routine it depends on the person and how their life works and it make take some trial and error to find a routine that works, sometimes I don't
follow my routine as strictly as i should and will stay in late and go to gym after work or skip it entirely. I am trying to make sure I go at least 3 days a week
minimum. So it all depends on the person and what they feel comfortable doing.
1) Have to drive to my gym - it's about 30min away. However, it's just around the corner from my workplace, so that's not an issue when we go back to office work.
There's nothing closer to my place either (other than tiny, expensive things that are stuffed in the back room of a leisure centre)

2) I do, but nothing fancy - I'm very much a "chuck some meat and stuff in a pan, that'll do" kind of guy. Normally takes around 15-20min most. I also tend to do that
at lunch, rather than after working out in the evening, as I'm working from home at the moment and have the luxury of being able to do that.

3) 8:45 to 4:45, so pretty much the 9-5. It's 30min normally to get to work, but, yeah, WFH. Working out happens after work - I really hate feeling rushed when in the
gym.

4) I normally get back from the gym around 7:30-8:00pm, and as I don't have a family/etc living with me, the rest of that evening time is all mine. I will get an extra
30min back when we start working from the office again, as I'd be getting to the gym about 30min earlier than I am now.

Honestly, it comes down what your priorities are, and if they are a higher priority than being in the gym.

You could look into incorporating some home workouts - Wednesday and Sunday, for example, are days that I don't go to the gym, and instead work on various
bodyweight goals I have (front/back levers, one armed push-ups, etc), which will allow you to get in extra volume you might want in your gym program but without
putting such a demand on your time.
(1) Gym is a 5-10 minute walk from my house or 2 minute drive.



(2) I split cooking with my partner so I only cook 2-3 meals per week and usually do so on off days from the gym. I make enough so there are leftovers for at least
one additional dinner or a few lunches.



(3) I work 8:30 to 5PM Monday - Friday



(4) I work out in the morning before work at about 5AM. After work that gives me about 4 hours to relax in the evening and I try to go to bed by 9PM. This is a new
routine for me as I used to go to the gym in the evenings at 5PM and go to bed around 11. Changed to mornings because the gym is now too crowded at night.
When I used to workout at night I'd pretty much get home around 7pm, eat dinner (leftovers or meal my partner cooked fresh), shower, and relax for a few hours
before bed. I do some spot cleaning during the week but a majority of chores and cleaning is done on the weekend when I don't have work.



(5) I spend 2-3 hours at the gym depending on the phase of training I am currently in (powerlifting can take a lot of time).


My advice to you is that meal prepping on days where you have more free time will definitely free up some of your time on busier days. It's really up to you to decide
on how much free time you need before bed. Sounds like you'd like to have some so maybe a morning workout routine would be better for you. You get it out of the
way in the morning and then you have the rest of your day free to do whatever you want. Not sure what your work schedule is like so hard to give specific feedback.
1. I either use the one at work, or one a 10 minute metro ride from home.

2. No. Other family members work from home and cook. I cook on weekends.

3. 7.30 in the morning. I get up at 05.45. Commute is about an hour. Work out after work. I also have three hours a week of working out during working hours.

4. Maybe 3-4 hours, depending on how late I want to go to bed. I'll sleep at 22-ish, so nearly eight hours of sleep.

5. 1-2 hours. My program is pretty volume-heavy. Main compound lifts take a bit more than an hour by themselves. Say two hours in total if I take the metro to the
gym.

I prioritize fitness above nearly everything else, I also have a job that lets me work out as often as I want to and a well-balanced schedule.
1. I bike to the gym after work, which is about 2.5km away. From home, it's slightly less.
2. I cook an evening meal after the gym almost every day. Some days I'll be lazy and blend a shake, or have a big bowl of oats.
3. I work 8-4, with some freedom in either direction of that. At the moment, I work out after work, and my work commute is about 5 minutes.
4. I have about 4-5 hours of personal time in the evening, and I go to bed around 11pm. I shower and make dinner after getting home from the gym.
5. From leaving work till I walk in the door at home, is about 90-100 minutes, depending on how packed the gym is and what I'm doing for that session.

Speaking to priorities, it really depends on you. If you can get into a good groove, you won't mind spending the time necessary in the gym.

It's possible you're expecting too much free time.
My situation is about as ideal as it gets while still having a 40+ hour a week job.

My gym is about a 10 minute walk from my house and is open 24/7, so there's never an excuse why I can't make it.

I don't cook as often as I prepare food. Most of my meals take about 20 minutes at most to throw together.

I have a flexible work schedule where I get to show up and leave when I want as long as I get my work done and I'm there for 40 hours a week, it's about 15
minutes away by bike or 10 by car.

I am an irresponsible garbage person and save all my chores for the weekend and just let shit get a little messy during the week to maximize my free time. Bedtime
is usually sometime between 10 pm and midnight.

I probably spend about 60-90 minutes, depending on what I'm doing. When I'm really on top of things and I have something to train for I'll often do two workouts a
day. I'll usually go to the gym really early or really late to minimize the number of people I have to be around.

Sometimes there aren't places you can conveniently cut time from if your schedule is insanely busy, but most people spend at least a couple hours a day on their
phone/playing video games/watching Netflix/etc.

My main trade-off is not having much of a social life anymore, but I'm almost 40 and practically married so it's not like I'd have a super active one anyway.
Just hop back in with your TDEE spreadsheet.
How does the saying go? You aren't punishing your body for what it is but celebrates what it can do.

I think a major lesson I have learned over the years is that whenever I lapse in my goals, the most important thing I can do is get back in the game. So what if you
ate too much? As long as you are in it for the long haul and maintain consistency in your goals then short lapses mean nothing. In fact, those short lapses should be
taken in stride and accepted that they will happen and it doesn't matter as long as you "get back on the horse".

Good luck!
C25K if you don't really have a running base. If you do have at least some cardio base, I would check out Hal Higdon's 10k running program. I loved it.
Couch to 5k is a great beginner running program if your goal is something along the lines of being able to run at a steady pace for 30 minutes.
I like the white plan from Daniels' Running Formula because he teaches good training habits that will have more carryover once you're done with the plan, and his
book is better than Couch to 5k and Bridge to 10k at detailing how to continue training beyond completion of the program.
moving a moderately heavy weight faster is still, all things considered, usually going to allow for high enough intensity to stimulate growth and strength gains.
Obviously there are limits to that concept and you can't just drop from grinding out sets at 400lbs to moving an empty bar as fast as possible, but I wouldn't expect
you to see much (if any) drop in effectiveness with a slightly more conservative TM and more explosive training.
Jim always advocates to be conservative your TMs anyway. Although you don't want to go so light that it's like no effort to complete.
No. Friday's widowmakers(1x20) will put you on your death bed half way through the program if you set your TM too high
By far the most cost efficient is boiled eggs. High protein, great calories. I usually eat 3 at a time.
For calories, nuts are a good choice. I wouldn't call them a good protein source when looking at the calorie:protein ratio. Protein powder is probably the cheapest
protein source when considering $ per gram.
Protein powder and a PB&J
Beans and rice in Tupperware is a low-budget staple.
Nuts are a fat source first.
They are a lot of calories in them as a result.
Eggs and chicken meat are usually quite cheap.
Firstly, a calorie defacit is what you need to lose fat, not necessarily cardio. You can do cardio whenever you want. If you do intense cardio right before lifting you'll
likely see a decrease in performance on your lifts.
Join a sports club! Volleyball, soccer, dancing, boxing! That would be fun and healthy.
You do not *need* cardio to “lose fat”

What you do need is to read the wiki
Cardio is not what makes you lose fat, a calorie deficit is and cardio can only help put you in one. And people generally say to do cardio after a workout because is
you do it before it will hinder your lifts. You can do as much cardio as you want but would recommend that you slowly build up so you don’t get burnt out and it
becomes more of lifestyle change and not just a short burst to cut the weight off. Good luck and keep to the grindstone.
The best indicator of being ready to move from beginner to intermediate programs is your progression. Have you been using linear progression? If you can't just
increase weight every week on most of your compounds, then you could start an intermediate program. If you didn't run something with progression planned, do a
beginner program for like 8 weeks then start something new.
Beginner vs intermediate is mostly about rate of progression. As a beginner, you can expect to consistently add weight session to session (linear progression). As
an intermediate, you can’t so programs often involve some type of periodization and / or auto-regulation.

As you’ve mentioned stalling, now might be the right time to move to intermediate.
Keep it simple. The 5/3/1 programme linked in the FAQ for the sub has been excellent for me (coming from a very similar place with the same goals). And the
simplicity / flexibility makes it very easy to stick to
Might be moving your body too much, you could try either doing them seated so you have back support or use some lighter weight so you can be sure you're only
using your biceps and not the rest of the body to control the movement
I'm probably not qualified to answer this but try locking your shoulders back or keeping the upper arm in a position so prevent movement.
Maybe you are using your traps a bit much ? Like raising your shoulders up when the weight gets too heavy. Try to limit all movements down to the elbow joint
when doing arms.
often, yeah. if it's only a couple weeks into the cut that's pretty early to be losing strength, but if you've been in a deficit for a while some degree of strength loss is
normal.
Yeah its pretty normal when cutting down to a low percentage of bodyfat you may lose some strength.
Personally I would bulk a bit and train hard to add some more muscle before cutting. For reference, I'm 5'7 170 and have visible abs so I think you just need to add
some more muscle.
Squats can be very fatiguing for the lower back.
Have you read the wiki? If not, you should. There are cardio/conditioning recommendations in there, including hiit.
If your weight was steady without exercice, there might be change. But usually, people don't realize when they start exercising that they eat a bit more to
compensate. Best way to know it to weigh yourself and maybe change a couple things from your diet (drastic changes would most likely end in giving up, take it
slow)
You will see small amounts of muscle growth and improved cardiovascular health. Weight loss will not occur without a diet change or a massive about of cardio.
Do your workout and over time gradually eat better and better. Depends what your goals are but u will see results from cardio and weight training because it will be
easier to be in a deficit but to see very good results diet is very important.
I would stick with 531. Probably not advisable to do BBB or one of the intenser 531 variants, but 531 is great to run on a cut
5/3/1 with PR sets and FSL supplemental is a good option. If you have access to a sled, the 5/3/1 Prowler challenge is good.
The same way most people did: try different widths.
Find out how you are comfortable enough to go down just under parallel and back up without your heels lifting from the ground. You may need to try many widths to
find one you are comfortable with AND have a good power output to get back up.
You squat with different positions until you find what’s most comfortable
I always liked this video for finding a stance: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fob2wWEC72s
By default, I tell people to sit down on a stool and then tell them to keep their feet where they were when the person initially sat down
Walmart or Amazon. The Walmart brand fits me well but is a little heavier than Amazon.
Thrift stores. If you spend more than $5 on any workout clothing other than shoes, you're overspending in order to be a fashionista.

It's a workout, not a fashion show.

(And I'm 50 and have been in the "corporate world" for decades. There's no corporate dress code in the gym.)
And why not the “Nike dry fit ultra pro”? They’re synthetic (nylon?) so they’ll last much longer than cotton one, what with all the daily washing and stuff. I don’t have
any regular cotton tshirts that have lasted me longer than my gym Nike stuff. Get them on sale, they won’t be that expensive
Walmart?
I’d recommend seeing a physical therapist. From personal experience, trying to self-diagnose and fix something like this is an exercise is frustration. But a good PT
will be able to assess and give you exercises to help correct any imbalance/inefficiency.

You’re not broken or anything, don’t worry. Find a PT who works with lifters/athletes who will keep you moving as you’re working to improve this.
My breakfast is almost the same, but with about 150g of frozen berries and 20g dark chocolate. If im cutting and want it to fill me up more, I add chia seeds and flax
seed. In that case, I find I can split that same pot into 2 meals and be pretty satisfied.
I use 500mls of milk (+little extra to mix the protein powder) instead of water, rest of it is the same as yours. Fills me up pretty well.
Yeah, no huge difference
Either option is fine. I personally would cut, as I don't see the point in trying to maintain as much muscle while gaining a bunch of fat for nothing, only to then cut the
fat away when back at the gym. I just cut down and then all muscle lost will come back pretty quickly thanks to muscle memory.
Deficit with lots of protein would be my choice
Function of the pecs is to abduct the humerus independently of the scapula, the serratus anterior is what abducts the scapula.
Scaps pinned still allows your arm to horizontally adduct. Barbell bench largely works the pecs from a stretched position more than a fully contracted one when
compared to something like a pec deck, so allowing the shoulder to translate forward doesn't add much to the movement that wouldn't be better achieved by
something like [this](https://youtu.be/5hxCX-6rzak)
The pecs attach to your arms, not shoulder. It brings the arms in, not shoulders forward. Bringing the scapula back and down puts the shoulders in a safer position
and also brings more stability.
> but surely the main role of the pecs is to contract and bring the shoulders forwards and separate the scapula?

It's not. You must have read wrong.
on bench its for stability and the fact that you cant really protract your scapulae when they're being pinned down by a "heavy" weight
By design. The program as written in the wiki does the same. Were I in your shoes, I would follow it as written
You can find the reddit submission for that program here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/comments/37ylk5/a_linear_progression_based_ppl_program_for/

It goes over progressions for the lifts, including the deadlift.
Um just eat more later in the day when its natural? Force feeding yourself is a one way ticket to Burnoutsville
I also don't feel hungry in the morning. What works for me is putting a scoop of protein powder in my oatmeal and leaving it on the counter, so all I have to do is add
water in the morning.

My willpower is finite, so I rely on preparation and habit as a substitute whenever possible.
I don’t feel hungry in the morning either. It’s usually 3-5 hours before I have my first meal. A couple things you could do:

1. Just eat more later.

2. Have a protein shake/smoothie style drink in the morning

3. Force feed yourself higher protein options. Eggs. I like eggs. 4-6 of them scrambled go down like nothing. ~24-36g protein for 240-360 calories. Have a fruit or
carb on the side.

You can jump straight into the bulk.
I used to get to the gym at about 5.30 am a few years ago, it was tough for a couple of weeks but I got used to it. The key was to get out of bed immediately and
start moving (especially in the winter months). I'd have a protein shake premixed in the fridge.
Thank you for your reply!

I'm definitely trying to banish the negative mindset and keep to my routine. My gym sessions haven't been great the last couple of days but trying to push through it.
Reassuring to know that others struggle with this too from time to time
This. When I was at my most disciplined, it was just something I would do. No questions. My partners knew that. I work, I lift. No exception
>The gym is an appointment

I LOVE this, thank you.
I'm very sorry to hear about your loss

Thank you for taking your time to respond. And you're absolutely right. I usually treat it as routine. I'm a total organised and routine freak most of the time. It's like
I've lost my mojo the past few days.
I'm probably just tired.
Thank you! I'll check him out :)
What if ya use a barbell and work your load up that way? I’ve been utilizing barbell lunges and barbell split squats as my main lifts during leg day because I
absolutely wrecked my lower back in the past
That sounds exciting

I was wondering because I filled in a bench max of 100 and it seems the TM is 90% of that, but I can do 8x85kg so it wants me to increase that TM by 10-15lbs?
Does that just mean my max should be higher than it is now?
I am eating 1,800 calories a day, which already seems like a sufficient cut for someone who is 6'1" and 220lbs.
Yeah man, I bought pure vanilla taste, doesnt taste good

im gonna try chocolate, strawberry or vanilla+pear
[deleted]
A waste to throw away, im ok with whey not tastimg good but i didnt realize that i hated vanilla this much, so im not tryna drag it and want to end it quickly

And no im not tryna replace food, im 280lbs so its not that much of a deal calorie wise for me
> I push intensity

Does this also go for auxiliary exercises and even isos?
Interesting. Whenever I do a cut I immediately lose reps within the first two weeks. Not sure if I'm doing something wrong or maybe it's psychological (noceboing
myself).

Progression barely happens for me. A few reps here in there MAX for the entire cycle but thats about it. Deficit is usually 500. Not too extreme either.
What do you mean by show stronger when cutting?
Lifting is lifting. Bulking, cutting, or maintenance is diet dependent and you should be lifting regardless. I wouldn't recommend making changes to how you lift unless
it becomes necessary due to schedule or not being able to recover adequately.
Ooh smart. I buy at sams club and they have 64oz of berries for $10. Thanks!
Ah okay. I wonder if you have personally tried Jacked and tan, if so were you progressing quick?
yh i've added weight but i don't think I'm doing enough in terms of volume
Oh it’s beyond that.
Don't have any peer-reviewed links to support this but anatomically we are built to use our core doing any weight training on our feet. That leads me to think the
core can be hit at a higher frequency than other muscle groups.

This is me talking out my ass though
I am a male, but I am not worried about the creepy factor. I wasn't being creeping, I was trying to help.

&#x200B;

She was mortified, you should have seen her face. I didn't know what to say so I may have been a little harsh. When I finally got out that I could she her asshole she
froze in terror. Then she left the gym pulling on her shorts. That is really why I feel bad, I could have let her live in ignorant bliss.
Great thanks for the reassurance. I've found it much more confortable in the bottom position and it beats my hands up a lot less. And I can lift more which helps
massage the ego
It's still very hinge dominant, I don't get very 'squatty' with a trap bar unless I force it. I'm increasing glute and hamstring volume anyway at the moment. I just
wondered if trap bar is suitable as a direct substitute or if there are some losses that come with the switch.
I had an MRSA infection in my butt that cause it too risky to go to the gym for a few weeks :(. I just couldn’t risk infecting others. It cause me to sleep stiff and sit on
one hip. I’m all better though and back at it!
Thanks
Oh, I haven't thought about internally rotating the palms to screw the bar into my hand. I'll give that a shot on my next bench day. Appreciate it!
Unfortunately at the gym I go to now, we've only got smaller diameter bars so I don't have the option to try fatter bars :(
Goal is to be healthy and maybe lose a few pounds. I will aim for 150 minutes in addition to my regular workouts.
Just to be healthy. Maybe to lose a few pounds too.
thanks. I'll look into it. I also backcountry ski alot and recently moved to a small town at the foot of a major mountain range.
I'm just saying, I used to crush 14ers almost weekly and my legs didn't feel nearly as worked the next day. stairstepper with a backpack and hiking more often, I
guess?
He should most definitely not be doing anything more than 1 rep at 80%.
Thats good to hear. I really struggle eating most of the day and tend to get extremely hungry for 1-2 hours where I can burn through as much food as possible so
glad to hear I'm not fucking myself over.

Hoping as I progress from the beginner workout stage and keep getting consistent sleep my appetite will improve.
That definitely makes sense to me, thanks for replying!
Yeah it’s a simple protein shake, thanks!
I usually drink 500ml milk for a bulk shake and a little bit of cheese in the morning. I usually shower before bed but sometimes i shower in the morning.
I have been to physio and do exercises twice daily to improve it. Which has helped, but I get impatient, lift something moderately heavy and then it hurts again
Nope was just going to go on a bike ride outside. Didn’t know if it was going to make me more sick or potentially help my immune system
I honestly suck at "plate math" (which I guess just means I suck at math) and it actually only recently occurred to me that I could likely be done "a minute sooner" if I
just kept my warm up weight and just added to it instead of going through the whole swapping procedure.

I do however believe that that \*first time\* you get to use/add a full plate, you should do it (at least while you are still a beginner), just to give your ego that lil stroke.

;-)
That's reasonable. For the most part though, at the squat racks in my gym, nobody ever takes the small 10s and 5s that are stored to the "inside" of the rack other
than the person using the rack in that moment.

Larger 10 bumper plates are stored on the outside of the rack and tend to be more of a "free for all", so I don't generally use those (unless they are needed, which is
rare).

For bench etc. though, that makes a lot of sense though as the only plates available are kinda "free for all" there, so you might be limiting someone else. But lets
face it, it's highly unlikely that I'll ever need a 45 to bench. (130lb F, that doesn't *yet* aim to enter power lifting competitions)
Good catch
Thanks! I think I’ll probably drop down to just a bar to make sure my form is good for a set before adding weights and making sure everything feels ok. The no
spotter thing is just a mental hurdle I suppose.

That’s disappointing about the trainers; are the certifications that hard? I mean I’m in weight loss right now so I don’t need one anyways.
Yeah dude me too that's why I've started doing it this way. I remember back when I was doing bro-split workouts and doing an entire day of core just always
managed to put me in a terrible mood. Thought of this way of doing it recently but figured I'd check to see what more experienced folk thought.
Well I wasn't thinking of paying for it, I just meant the advice he gives on his Youtube channel.
Sweet! Sometimes helped to be told that, thanks.
What about dumbbell presses? All the way down till they touch the shoulders, too?
Thanks boss
Awesome, appreciate the advice and info brother!
unfortunately , i workout at home since the start. it was all working out before. but now the long shifts and travel are killing me.
I'm thinking about joining some football academy, i was on my peak, when i used to play football.
Currently surplus, soon in a deficit though.
I found sucess doing mini cuts after 4-5 months of bulking. My last mini cut ended in may at 173,8lbs and now at roughly 183lbs. I'll start a new mini cut shortly in a
month or so. I've gone full potato with bulkin in my early years of lifting. So I'm taking the more conservative apporach to bulking. I think it's a decent-ish weight gain
for 4 months.
really cool, thanks for sharing!
How about be helpful and not just say to read the entire wiki??
I did that again, I can't do my usual 10kg dumbells anymore, I'll have to go down to 7 or 8kg, will this effect my gains? It looks like i use my shoulders a lot in curls.
can i get fatigue right after the workout? usualy i only get sore after 1 or 2 days.
Yeah you're probably right, I'm just more comfortable in the cheap stuff because that's what I've been doing so long. I'm sure I can get used to the actual workout
gear too.
Brilliant explanation, thanks!
Thanks, think I need to look at some pictures of skinless men to understand it better.
Not something I've read, just trying to guess how I'm plugged together
Yea that’s what I’ve been doing. I just don’t feel as good without it a proper breakfast
Cool that’s what I wanted to hear :)
Look at it this way, your sessions the last couple of days were a hell of a lot better than the people who bailed on going altogether.
Absolutely!! Glad it resonated with you as well
I appreciate the kind words.

That’s exactly how I felt; mojo is a great word. And the first couple times back did take a lot in terms of just putting shoes on and making my pre workout and getting
out the door. But once I strung together a couple weeks of 3-4 days of training, it all fell into place again. Good luck to you!
Nice work on 85x8!

To answer the question about the max - possibly, but it'll sort itself out in a week or two based on your performance. Adding that extra 5-7.5kg-ish in the training max
is going to make those nine bench sets (plus any extra volume sets in the particular program) so much more challenging, as it affects them all.
It does. Are you really tracking everything that goes into your mouth? Milk in coffee, that little bit of oil you fry your food in, that sliver of cake at the office?

And do you adjust up and down depending on your exercise for the day or eat 1800 every day no matter what?
Under what possible criteria could you determine your diet to be "sufficient" when you've been at it for months and haven't lost weight? It's the opposite of sufficient.
It's a complete failure.
Get a bunch of sample packs if that's possible.
You didn't know that because it isn't true.

Everything you eat, not just protein, gets used as energy or stored in the body as glycogen, muscle, or fat. I'm not sure what epiphany you just had, exactly.
I don't concern myself with those in general. They aren't what gets results. Main and supplemental work are the focus.
Lift heavier weights and set PRs.
I haven't but a lot of people have! It's definitely not a beginner program. I just took some ideas from it, [this is my modified gzclp](https://imgur.com/a/ZifHZNu) just
based on what equipment I have really.
You're on a linear progression program, it'll get harder soon enough just given the nature of the progression scheme. Adding 5lbs for upper and 10lbs for lower
every session will definitely make you feel like you're working.
If you really got horrible soreness and general malaise, if your piss turns brown you should visit an ER. Just warning.

But aside from hydrating, popping some pain killers and getting moving, there isn't a lot you can do. Stretching helps, but if it's that bad you probably don't want to
stretch due to the pain lol
Have a few drinks
> When I finally got out that I could she her asshole

wtf
Woah I was suspicious from your first comment but you're a total creep lmao
Honestly, I lift trap-bar too. I did switch to conventional for about a year or so, but decided that the lower strain on my lower back was beneficial for the kind of things
I do outside of gym (ie, professional wrestling, where there is a lot of impact on the back just as standard)
Bummer man. Wrist wraps it is then haha. At any rate congrats on the PR!
0 cardio is required for losing weight. You need to eat less calories for that to happen. If the cardio puts you in a calorie deficit for the day then that'll work too, but
it's usually easier to eat one less cookie then to run 3 miles and burn the same amount of calories.
I originally wrote just a single but I've used higher reps sometimes so I opened it up a bit. For an upper body lift I'm probably going to err towards the triple, for lower
body the single.
I'd lean towards recommending just a single at 80% as well but I wouldn't say he "most definitely" shouldn't do more, I've done 3-5 reps at that weight and gone on
to successfully lift the new 1rm plenty of times. Also depends if you've got a set attempt in mind or you're just going to feel it out
Best look at your form then. Properly packing in your shoulders and adjusting your bar path helped me a lot if you’re talking about bench
Stay home bro
>it's highly unlikely that I'll ever need a 45 to bench

You say that now!

But aye, you know your gym and how things are used better than I do, so you do you (=
Trainer certifications are not that hard. That's part of the problem.
Sure try it out and see how it goes.
I haven't done that movement in about 6 years or so. [This is the closest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EKQSlBxZBwU), but yeah, I touch.
Do you. I prefer physical sports so football may be just as good for you.
You would get tightness in the lower back right after the workout. 1 or 2 days after are DOMS.
You'll love exrx.net, gives a ton of great info on how the muscles work and where they attach
Then eat fruit/oats. You dont need a ton of protein first thing in the morning
Thank you for this :)
I feel like a pure idiot for not thinking this
Ah I just looked at your modified gzclp program and you have 2 t2 exercises and 2 t3 exercises. How long into the program were you before you started adding
more than 1 exercise for t2 and t3?
Okay thanks for the help bro
Yeah no stretching today. I guess I’ll go for a mellow bike ride after I get done with the hot tub.
I like that I have the option to reduce range of motion on days that I feel less mobile without messing about with blocks as well. And also I can deload it and do
weighted jumps easily.

I might have become a trap bar evangelist...
Hmmm good to know! I guess I will stick with 150 then since I do like to take a long walk throughout the day. I just have to try and keep my elliptical schedule - I’ve
really been slacking there since the pandemic started.
Yeah I imagine it could use some work, after 15 years I have pretty good form but I benched awfully for years which is what I feel is getting me now. Same injury
from when I used to flare my elbows. Problem is not being able to do dumbells or shoulder press as well is frustrating.
>You say that now!

True.

At present though, I'll just be excited when I get to use 25s at bench! (currently only lift 85lbs (5x5), so that is actually one of my short term goals)
Thank you!
it might be that. Is there a way to reduce the tightness in lower back after workout ?
I superset them so not that much longer, maybe like 10 minutes? idk.
Trap Bar for life <3 Also use it for heavy farmer's walks!
Choose what you like to do! Good luck.
Best of luck with it! I've no doubt you'll get there soon!
**Welcome to the Victory Sunday Thread**

It is Sunday, 6:00 am here in the eastern half of Hyder, Alaska. It's time to ask yourself: What was the one, best thing you did on behalf of your fitness this week?
What was your Fitness Victory?

**We want to hear about it!**

**So let's hear your fitness Victory this week! Don't forget to upvote your favorite Victories!**
Three weeks since I started going to the gym again, 12 sessions completed, even managed to make myself go after a couple of really long days at work.

Fuck you depression.
Hadn't ridden a bike in over 20 years until I bought myself a bike this week. Cycled all 9km into work yesterday!
New PR of 80kg for 7 reps on OHP


These mornings, the first thought that pops into my head when my eyes feel groggy is do you want to be a little bitch or do you want to be a big man

Not sure if this is healthy to motivate me to gtfo out of bed but man it helps
Started lifting as a mid 30s dad and a complete beginner about 18 months ago. I had a long term goal of lifting 200-250-300 lbs. on the big 3 lifts.

This week I lifted 200-265-305.
Just went in for my first one plate OHP attempt ever. Expected 1-2 and I hit it for 7. What the fuck!!
Typically my squats and deadlifts take forever because I take ungodly amounts of rest time talking myself into the next set. This week, I was able to just take two
minutes and make myself shut up and do the next set. Every time.
Finally broke 170lbs - been struggling to keep up with my weight gain goals, but ultimately it all just came back to eating more. Lesson learned!
I (finally) deadlifted more than I weigh for reps!
Yesterday my country opened again fully, with all restrictions going away. Night clubs, pubs and bars got absolutely packed with ridiculous lines. Many of my friends
tried to convince me to join them, and to break my alcohol free september. I obviously wanted to go, but I'm not breaking such a big promise to myself. Especially
when I'm making better progress than ever this month.

Went on to have a great leg day, where I finally struggled less on 5x3 squats after adding a few sets of higher reps squats to my leg day lately. I'm new ish to
squatting. Been avoiding it cuz of knee problems, but turns out they actually feel pretty safe and even help my knees with proper technique and lifting shoes!

Maybe I should extend this alcohol free period...
200lb OHP. Still training like a caveman.
Hit 1 plate on a back squat. Tiny weight compared to the numbers seen on here, but I'm happy with that progress in 2 months, especially as I felt close to failure at
around rep 7, but somehow ground 3 more out.
Got 3 workouts in this week after 3 weeks off

Deadlift - 170kg x 3

Bench - 90kg x 2

Squat - 120kg x 3
Quit working out and started drinking more. Lost all strength. Was benching two plates as my 1RM. Now benching one plate for reps is a challenge. But yesterday
was the first day I haven’t drank and cleaned up my garage gym. Had a half ass workout but going to quit drinking and hit it like I used to. Drinking has no benefits
and it’s the main reason why I stopped, being hungover makes me not want to workout…who knew. I’m hopeful for the future. Hoping muscle memory will help me
get back to feeling fit again a quickly, after I lose some fat that I gained.
Weird victory but whatever.

I was sick for a week and I couldn't work out. There was about a 50/50 chance that I'd have trouble restarting working out and fall of the wagon. I didn't; I continued
where I left off.

Oddly enough, I felt stronger after that week. All my lifts increased; upped reps in some lifts too. If anyone can explain what happened, that'd be much appreciated.

Ps. I work out at my basement so even if I was contagious, it's all good.
I started weight lifting a few months ago and have recently been watching videos. Turns out my deadlift and squat form sucks. I'm normally pretty hard on myself
and always wanting to push myself, but my victory is deciding to go down in weight to learn proper form!
Today marks the 2 months of me being in the gym! I’ve lost 55lbs so far but have about 15lbs-25lbs more I want to lose.

Here are my current PL stats:

F/19/5’10”/195lbs

S: 195lbs
B: 95lbs
D: 300lbs

Sm room for improvement but I’m excited to see where this takes me. Also just ordered my first belt!
Oh man, I’m hyped about this one. I’d worked for 2 years to get a 4-plate deadlift. Got as high as 425 before I had an unrelated foot reconstruction a year ago at 37.
Took my surgery recovery as an opportunity to focus on aesthetics and form, but secretly wanted to know if I still could pull 4. Felt good on Friday and tested it.
Went up easyyyy, did it _between_ 5x7 at 355. Confident I could still pull 425 and I look a hell of a lot better than I did a year ago.
I can do a pull up! I've yo'yoed on my weight for years, gaining and losing lots of weight very quickly and as a result, when I most recently lost weight I was stripped
of muscle. Started lifting weights for the first time in my life in April and fell in love with it as well as properly nourishing my body. When I started I was maxing out
the assisted pull up machine, and this morning I did my first actual full pull up.
Started lifting weights again for the first time since 2015 just about two months ago. After getting some advice from an older gymbro, I pushed my bench to where it
was six years ago! I wasn’t strong then and I’m not strong (yet ) now, but it was pretty emotional for me to push through my personal shit and find myself back
where I was.
Was out of the gym for a year and a half. Four months back in and I hit a 395 squat.
Ran my fastest mile yet this week. 5:59. Only started running last December I’ve made a lot of progress this year. Coming for 5 minute mile next
I don't know if this is appropriate but it's been a month without smoking and entire quality of life is better. Exercises feel good, I can breathe and my appetite is
better.
PR'd the full marathon at 3:26 today. Feels good hoping to break 3:15 next year
OHP: 105 lbs, 3x5!! My shoulders have been progressing like crazy
I faced my fear of attending drop in basketball alone at my gym. I was super self conscious of everyone looking at me, although I know I have much room for
improvement. Some guys invited me to play for a few pick up games. I was hesitant and said yes, and the guy said don't worry.

Eventually found my groove of things and even scored a few points and some 3s. They were hyping me up every time I scored lol

It felt good and am less nervous on coming back to play and shoot around again :)
Friday morning I felt like shit and wanted to go back to bed. But I forced myself to go to the gym before work instead of getting another 90 minutes of sleep.
Squatted 335x4 (lbs) at 164ish bodyweight. Moving closer to that 405 goal, which is nice. Deads moved well this week too, and I'm pretty sure my 500 attempt will
fly next month as well. Overall, pretty happy with my progress, except for my bench that has been dropping due to tendonitis.
I’ve been in a slump the last 6 months and haven’t been working out religiously like I used to. Today I’ve decided to finally get off my ass and workout daily again to
better my mind and body. Not so much a victory, but making a commitment to get back to it is something.
My rugby coaches did a ranking/tier/assessment of our players, and I got placed in the "competent, more or less knows his shit" category. It's about what I expected
and see in myself nowadays, but it's nice to hear that from the coaches. But more importantly, 4 years ago, I started off completely lost with tons of doubts about
whether I would ever become competent. To know that I've not just endured those 4 years but have made real, concrete improvement is a pretty good feeling.

The next step is to rise up into the "gameplay leader" category. Physically, technically and knowledge-wise, I've got everything I need. What I need to work on is the
mental part and to stop beating myself up. I need to own my strengths and show everyone that I believe in myself now, even if I occasionally have doubts.
I've finally reached a weight of 65.5+ kilograms on average, which means, that I've officially put on 20.0kg since 2021 started! Can't thank Reddit enough for all
information and help! r/gainit and r/Fitness have been the best place for me to find answers to my questions! Thank you all!
Sleep and diet were on point last week and I easily broke my bench PR yesterday. Nothing major, but these good weeks where I progress how I want to have been
feeling rare lately.
I spent 4.5 hours at the gym over the past week and everything I did was a fitness victory! I joined a few weeks ago - my first-ever experience in a gym and I'm in my
50s. Probably the single most important victory was setting a schedule and workout plan. Sometimes I get so stressed about making decisions in situations like this
that I end up paralyzed.
Hit a [3x5 +30 KG chin-up PR](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_aqYFOymFxc) on my cut, which I'm quite content with! Nothing too overly impressive, but the
progress is certainly there.
Lately my mental health has been terrible. Auckland was at level 4 lockdown (nothing but essentials open, no meeting others, no gyms) and I'm still working and
studying AND ON A CONTEST PREP for a contest which has been delayed by a full month due to said lockdown.

But things have been picking up. My coach has given me a day off the diet this week to help my mentality and not become obsessed with calorie counting due to the
sheer boredom of the world. We've moved to level 3 lockdown so fast food and cafes are allowed to deliver, open drive throughs, and we can move about a bit
more. And I've got a solid appointment date now for offically dianosing my adult ADHD and getting some medication to help it. (I was on ritalin when younger and it
helped so much, but my doctor took me off it because he thought "we don't want you dependant on it" and my parents agreed for some reason. So now I have to
get rediagnosed after 12 years).

Gyms are set to open at level 2, which will hopefully be in a week (touch wood), and I'll be starting an apprenticeship with an electrical company at the same time,
finally beginning my career I've been taking all my trade classes for.

[I've nearly broken down in tears last week. But things are looking up, and I'm still working hard on my progress. It's going to get better.]
(https://imgur.com/a/ebmXZKx)
I comfortably pulled my all time DL PR for the third time (and full on soap opera cried right after).

The first two times I pulled that weight showed I had some deep lumbar dysfunction, resulting in painful tweaks & multi-month long rehab sessions. Typical "can't tie
my shoes", "grunt with pain every time I sit/stand/turn" kinda stuff, with some moments it seemed was done deadlifting forever... It took a while to cross that weight
'cause I was all up in my head about it. Still am, tbh. It's taken a few years to get back. But I f'ing did it, hard & slow.

It's a beautiful thing to be able to move. It's a beautiful thing to be strong enough to stand up pain free.
I went to the gym for the first time yesterday. I'm crazy sore but it's a good kind of pain!!
I was out of town for a week and didn’t have access to a gym/workout equipment. Today was my first day back and I crushed my leg work out! It felt great being in
the gym again. I started my fitness journey a little over a month ago and I’ve never enjoyed working out this much until now. I’m excited to see the progress I’ll make
over the next few months.
I did 10 miles two days in a row on a stationary bike in under 30 minutes.

Finally developing a love for cardio in addition to my lifting.
First 25 km cycling yesterday. Very fun
Hit a baby PR! Only 5lb more on bench, but I’m getting closer and closer to that 300lb goal.
Just ran 7.5km, my longest outdoor run in a while since i (kinda) recovered from my shin splints. Puked a lil due to drinking too much water afterwards, but all in all
it felt so good.
Beat COVID-19, cleared from quarantine and headed back to work. Ready to hit the gym on Monday. It's been 10 days of stay-at-home and now I'm healthy again
and ready to get back at it.
I'm finally learning to let go of my unhealthy relationship with food and I'm making more progress in the gym than I ever have in my entire life.

I'm nowhere near my goals but it's a step in the right direction.
Friday I deadlifted 105kg (about 230 lbs) for the first time felt fucking amazing.
Finally squatted high bar 300 for a set of 7 and deadlifted 375 for 7. 405 squat and 500 dead getting much closer
my fitness victory was bench pressing 70 pounds. i know that is light weight for a lot of people, but i have never done that much in all my years of working out
(mostly because i hadn’t been training arms). being consistent with lifting for the past two months has enabled this to happen and i can’t wait till i hit the three digits
eventually.
PRs this week:

[225x4 Log Press](https://youtube.com/shorts/CUATW1JrHdg?feature=share)

[585x20 Deadlift from Blocks ](https://youtu.be/MRkzctaNKwg)

[Single Arm Sumo Jefferson Deadlift with Single Arm DB Press (405/55)](https://youtu.be/51Nw9xds8nA)
Tuesday I hit 2 Deadlift PR's for Sumo and Conventional. Sumo I lifted 705 for all time PR and Conventional I lifted 635 for 5 reps for a volume PR. Didn't wake up
expecting to have such a great workout that day. I felt good overall.
Just got a squat PR for the first time in over 3 years (325lbs). It's mainly a mental victory, because I could have gotten it a lot sooner. However, last time I attempted
a PR, I wasn't able to make it back up, but the safety bars slipped off when I tried to use them. So, I was left when 335lbs choking and crushing me while I
desperately attempted to scream "HELP!" Taken me a while to muster up the courage to attempt this again. Made sure the safety bars were tight in place lol.
I smashed my half marathon PB yesterday - 1:52:20! It was my first time under 2 hours.

Also the garage gym is finally coming together! Got my flooring, my rack, bar and a couple plates, and my bench is shipping. Should be able to start lifting at home
by next week!
Got back into working out in June, after a 6 month, COVID-related hiatus. Today I matched my old 1RM deadlift at 330 lbs. Feels good.
Getting back into the habit of working out again. I’m doing my best to do at least 4 days out the week, since I work more than 8 hours at my job.
I hit a PR on squats for 305 but then decided to break it and go for 315. I can't believe I finally can hit 3 plates on squats. I decided to reward myself with AYOC
sushi and some ice cream.
Kind of a weird victory post but...

Just got back from an incredible two weeks in Italy and didn't work out at all. Didn't track calories or worry about fitness in the slightest, although I did get plenty of
cardio in.

Doing PPL six days a week, I was starting to feel a little bit of burnout. I had planned to do some bodyweight stuff on vacation but decided against it and I'm glad I
did. Just relaxing and enjoying the trip was a great reset, and I got to appreciate the fruits of all my hard work because all the walking and stair climbing we did
barely fazed me, and it probably would have killed me a year ago. Came back from the trip excited to start lifting again.

All in all it was just a great reminder for me that being physically fit is a tool to have a great life, not the life itself.
Beat my PB on the sled push (175kg) & beat my 1km time on the treadmill today. Buzzing.
Today, I [Squatted 480 lbs for 2 reps](https://youtube.com/shorts/Ck0xeczIvsk?feature=share) after doing 4 singles. Took about 18 minutes in total.

Yesterday, I did the same with Pause Bench Press at 305 lbs except I ended that with a triple!

My deadlift is currently falling apart. Let's not talk about that....
Had to take a rest week, 10# lifting restriction. Went back to the gym on Friday, weak ass workout. Hit it again Saturday, leg day, and felt fantastic! Sore AF today,
but happy to be back lifting.
I spent this entire week going down in weight and correcting my form for the big three lifts. My lifts have gone up exponentially in the last three months but lately I
had been feeling like I was letting my form go for the sake of progressing further and I was right. Squat only went down by 10 lbs by correcting it and my bench
actually went up somehow. Deadlift down by 20.
After not touching a bike for 5 months, I (foolishly) did a 58km bike tour. Despite feeling like death by the end, I had a lot of fun, saw some great views, and picked
up some local wine and cider.
I’m finally back to working out and after two months in and I can already feel some progress. I took pictures of my back in July, then August, and then September
this morning among others and the difference feels [awesome](https://imgur.com/a/NJyLjGg). Even if small, I don’t ever want to stop.
Even though I have been getting weaker throughout my cut, I feel as if I am able to do more pull ups. Either that or I am doing them with more ease. Definitely felt a
power gain. Also I feel like I look great despite me not having changed much. Definite confidence boost.
Always wanted to use the squat rack but was too scared. There wasn’t a lot of people at the gym so I got the courage to finally use it today!!
Ran 5 days this week
415 x 13 deadlift amrap rpe 8, big rep pr
Been going for 3 weeks on my new "diet"/workout routine and lost my first 2 pounds this week!
After making a post the other day being frustrated about not seeing progress, I tracked and weighed my food better and dropped 4.5lb whilst also getting back to
110lb for 4 sets of 6 which was my previous best before stopping. I know 110lb isn’t much, but it feels good putting the bigger plates on ha.
Weight and rep increase on my dumbbell flat bench during pyramid sets.
Last Thursday marked the first month of dedicated exercise for me, and on my weigh in the next day, I was 10lbs down from my starting weight.
Finished my first week of 5/3/1 SSL. I'm really liking dealing with heavier weights vs FSL. It feels great not being on a beginner template anymore and it's great
having one lift each day to focus on, I think it'll really help with long term progress.
Managed to lift 25s and ran a 6:20 mile after years of slow 8-10 min miles. Though I coughed up a ton of blood like Kakyoin and all might combined. So I’m taking a
week break rip☹️
Took a week off lifting because life got in the way. When I went back to the gym I hit a new PR on all my lifts.
Apparently the break was necessary!
Shit I was always insecure about doing my pullups near people but today I noticed the secluded pull up spots were taken so I went and did them in the central area
where plenty of people and machines are. I can only do 5 pushups but damn that was a powerful feeling hahaha :).
Did a bike to run practice Sunday in preparation for an upcoming triathlon. It felt pretty good. I also hit my run and swimming training distance goals last week which
was nice.
Swam in the coldest water I have ever swam in for my cardio session. I slowly adapted to the cold over the past few weeks and I am overall fit enough and used to
activities enough that I had the foresight to have the right fuel before swimming and the capacity to generate enough heat to stay warm easily.
It is doing wonders for the rest of my health - I knew of it in theory but I can feel it personally now. Bloodflow over my whole body has improved a lot even into the
next day for example. That in itself is huge... people take drugs to improve bloodflow...
Doing a full body routine and hit a personal best on Romanian Deadlifts the same day as my bench felt weaker than usual. Which seems weird but I'll take it
Same, except it’s three months
nice man. Send that pain below
Great work man, hope things get better for you.
Just like riding a bike!
That's insane for OHP. Congrats dude!
How long did it take ?
You must be close to 2 plates! What's your bodyweight?
Really good, 2 plate+ in no time
Congrats man, I actually just got the same today! Broke an 80x5 plateau of the last 3 times I tried the weight

Similar bodyweight too @ 104, still trying to get my ohp equal to one of me
Now you'll be able to beat Sonic and collect the chaos emeralds for sure.
What the fuck is right! Banging out 5 extra OHP reps is really incredible. I don't want to ruin your fun, but are you sure you were using the right barbell? Something
exactly like that happened to me the other day—I unexpectedly smashed my PR, but it turns out the bar only weighed 15kg. Anyway, you know your life better than
me, so if you really did get 7 reps, congrats!
Expecting to get 1-2 reps and getting 7 would make my ~~day~~ week! Congrats!!
You do you I'm gonna keep reading entire books between my sets, maybe pop in a bluray
I stopped drinking like a year or 2 ago and never looked back. I dont judge those who drink, it's just not for me.
Damn! Gratz mate!
Nuts man. Can I ask what you are benching?
You'll be hitting 2 plates in no time. Milestones are milestones regardless of the weight
Congrats man! I hit 1 plate on squat the other day as well! Started my squat at like 75 ish lbs around 3 months ago so i'm happy with the progress.
Drinking hinders so many people when it comes to fitness. A ton of calories, empty calories, harder to workout, makes you fatter, and noticed for heavy drinkers it
reflects in their face.

But how long has it been for you? Going from two plates, to struggling with one sounds pretty extreme.
You got this dude!!! Good job on starting back again, that can sometimes be the hardest part
Deload weeks; though you did complete rest, people just reduce volume or intensity
When I got covid I squatted 145x8 the week before and 145x9 on my first heavy squats back. Sometimes you just need the rest
LFG!!
Fuck yeah!! Congrats. I've been cigarette free 1.5 years. Best thing I could've done for myself and my loved ones. Feels so good to have that crap out of my life.

Keep it up! Only gets better from here.
OF COURSE IT IS! congratulations man fitness is all about getting healthier
Hell yeah dude awesome job!’
Stay vigilant!
These OHPs are a must to take the upper body to the next level. Been avoiding them for years till recently.
Awesome! I still haven’t fully gotten over that fear even though I practice basketball alone all the time
How did you feel after? Pumped or shattered? haha
Those were solid reps. Nothing to scoff at by any means.
Kia Kaha bro, you'll all be let outside eventually. I will say, its a bit surreal to be going to the gym down here in level 2.

You're looking hella good though, so congratulations on that.
Did taking the time off help you recover?
Your gym set up is sick!
[deleted]
Bro you are not going to be able to walk when you’re 50 if you don’t sort your back position out. Keep it straight.
This is awesome, I feel like everyone could stand to understand that a little bit more. It’s all about the healthy balance.
Impressive. What's your deadlift looking like?
Good work. I'm dropping my deadlift down 20kg this week to try and correct my form on it. My legs aren't strong enough at 110kg to lift the weight, so my back is
rounding and placing more strain on my lower back. I'm worried that if I don't correct my form I'll seriously injure my lower back.
That was a big moment for me back in the day as well.

Between being super unsure of form, weak legs and just occupying the space - good on ya!
Damn that’s huge. Good job dude
That’s awesome! Keep at it and only more progress will ensue.
So awesome man. Keep it going!
Please see a doc asap. That is so far from normal and potentially very dangerous.
All the numbers in your comment added up to 69.0. Congrats!

  25 +
  6+
  20 +
  8+
  10 +
  = 69.0
Good job man.

When do deadlifts stop sucking?!
Cheers man :)
I've been lifting 5 years
I've actually hit two plates previously, but OHP for reps has lagged behind my 1RM

And I'm 105kg at 193cm
Good stuff! I've been wanting to get 80kg x10 for a while, so one step closer to that
Yeah my gym only has 20s. A lot of it was adrenaline I think, the first rep went up like air which was a massive confidence booster for the rest of the set. That
combined with OHP being a generally safe compound move I wasn’t afraid of failing at all, so could just put everything + more into it.
Grab a snack. Maybe even take a nap.
Been reconsidering it as well. Or at the very least the amount. Had a workout on Monday where I still felt it from drinking on Saturday.
Thanks, I'm happy about it. It was actually my goal for 2022 but I've become stronger a lot quicker than I expected. 225 by the end of 2022, maybe.
Sure, my best bench was 300 a month or so ago.

I train bench every third day, so two days of rest in between bench days. I usually do 250-265 5x5 depending on how I am feeling, then do a 6th set of 205-225 for
AMRAP just to make sure I'm getting that hypertrophy in.

My performance is always iffy because I have maintenance insomnia and usually get 3-6 hours of very poor quality sleep, so my max is a dependent thing, don't
think I could hit a 200 OHP any day.
Thanks
Thanks and nice work!
6 months? One plate isn’t my max though. It’s just hard to even do 5x8 with that weight, I don’t even think I can. I was doing 175 5x8 when I could bench two plates.
Diet went to shit too since I wasn’t working out I didn’t get enough protein and just eating bad with added alcohol calories.
Thanks. For sure, I kept saying I’ll get back at it but it took me hitting my low until I finally decided to. I know once I get the ball rolling I should be good for a few
months until temptation sets back in. That will be the next challenge.
Thank you!!
Thanks bro! I'm great at quitting. It's the follow through that's hard. I was up state in pa couple years back when doc took tobacco off commissary, that was tough
Totally pumped. Well worth dragging my ass out of bed at 3:30
Appreciate it! Gotta keep myself honest with the form :)
Cheers bro, it's going to be a relief when we get back to it here as well. Every if it's hard I'm going to keep grinding and trying to help others.
No it does not
I don't think I'll be humoring the opinions of an /r/nattyorjuice regular
The heaviest deadlift I've pulled on a stiff bar is 520 lbs a few years ago. 4 months ago I hit 430x13 with the stiff bar.

I switched to a Deadlift Bar to prepare for a powerlifting meet and I'm struggling with the new bar. 470 lbs is the heaviest weight I can complete with the new bar.
~120kg is where I started having issues. Thankfully I wasn’t having lower back issues, but I wasn’t doing the lift as fluidly as I wanted. Today I went back up to 120
and then 125 and I felt better, but now my grip is suffering Might need to invest in straps or chalk
I added Romanian deadlift after watching Alan Thrall’s tutorial.. they seem better now. Lower back doesn’t feel pumped up
225lbs is a crazy amount to OHP. You should be hella proud if that happens! Keep it up
Actually scratch that just hit 305. Going to try 310. I don't have a spotter so let's hope this works aye

Holy shit i need to practice heavy singles before I do that, hit 310 but whew lad that was close
You got this man, and six months makes sense I was just assuming a month or two in my head. You might want to supplement some cardio like bike stairs or
treadmill for cardiovascular health.

But either way muscles are so flexible and adaptable sure you’ll bounce right back!
One day at a time brother
Up to you boy. But that rounded back may be good for ego lifting but is a recipe for disaster.
What is a deadlift bar?
I did 90kg yesterday and there is no lower back soreness today, compared to lifting 100-110kg last week. So I think I just need to stay at that weight for a bit and let
my legs get stronger. I was having grip issues, but found that holding the bar in my fingers, rather than my palms helped a lot.
I switched almost immediately to hex bar for the same reason, a bit easier on the lower back.
I saw your gainit post, you're doing really well. Already benching bodyweight for 5 reps, thats impressive. Watching your squat you were grinding hard for those
reps which is going to be great for size and strength.

Don't need me to give you any advice, but if you keep gaining 1-2kg per month you'll be big and strong in no time. Since you're starting off lighter you might even
be able to gain quicker than that in a healthy way.
Thanks! Not the first time where I got fairly fit only to think that since I’m fit-ish I can drink and don’t need to workout as much. Wrong. I was still kinda drinking when
I got fit but just feel like I should quit all together, it’s a cycle now. It makes me look and feel bad. The real gains goblin
So the entire gimmick to your troll/alt account is "I say subtly insulting things to strong people," "I ask dumb questions to trigger/r/fitness," and "I obsess over what
dudes use steroids or not." Any idea how long you're gonna keep this going?
Have fun being small, weak and saltier than a jug of soy sauce.
It's just like a regular barbell, but its thinner and easier to grasp, and it bends more.
THe biggest issue with hex bar deadlifting is that it is easy to do it with an upright back, making it a squat/quad movement rather than a hip hinge/glute movement.
Obviously, that's still beneficial, but it could be making you neglect the hip hinge pattern/do a lot more squat volume than intended.

I would just ask why the lower back pump is such a bad thing. While not everyone has to deadlift (And the fact that it's arbitrarily 9" off the ground means there do
exist people who do not benefit from it), I might still program another hip hinge (SLDL, RDL, kettlebell swing)

cheers
Woaw! Thank you so much u/KKV! Appreciate it, man! I hope to stay in touch with you the day that happens then! I'll definitely make sure to make a post on here
when I hit that 100's in kg on the bars! :D Have a nice day/eve!
I work solo in the gym and people don’t correct the form. So I don’t want to do it wrong. Lower back pump is a sign of that.

I prefer exercises that I can know I am doing right.
I might be wrong, but I though spinal erectors were a main movers in hip hinges, and thus a lower back pump is a natural side effect

let me know if I'm way off base, cheers
Umm I am new, so my pump is likely from lifting wrongly, instead of due to isometric contraction done by a good lifter.

Best I can suggest is Greg Nuckols how to deadlift article.
Welcome to the /r/Fitness Daily Simple Questions Thread - Our daily thread to ask about all things fitness. Post your questions here related to your diet and
nutrition or your training routine and exercises. Anyone can post a question and the community as a whole is invited and encouraged to provide an answer.

# As always, be sure to [read the wiki](https://thefitness.wiki) first. Like, all of it. Rule #0 still applies in this thread.

Also, there's a [handy search function](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/search?&restrict_sr=on) to your right, and if you didn't know, you can also use Google to
search r/Fitness by using the limiter "site:reddit.com/r/fitness" after your search topic.

Other good resources to check first are [Exrx.net](http://www.exrx.net/index.html) for exercise-related topics and [Examine.com](https://examine.com/) for nutrition
and supplement science.

If you are posting a routine critique request, make sure you follow [the guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/rules#wiki_rule_.239) for including enough
detail.

**(Please note: This is not a place for general small talk, chit-chat, jokes, memes, "Dear Diary" type comments, shitposting, or non-fitness questions. It is for fitness
questions only, and only those that are serious.)**
# Post Form Checks as replies to this comment

### For best results, please follow the **[Form Check Guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/posting_guidelines#wiki_how_to_post_a_form_check)**.
*Help us help you.*

----


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Fitness) if you have any
questions or concerns.*
How long should I rest between each set ? I see all kinds of different times when I'm at the gym. There's one huge guy that only rests about 15 seconds.

I know it's creepy to watch other people without permission but I'm too shy to ask them questions straight up in person about form.
2 weeks ago I was dumped, I haven't had that much of an apetite since. I am hungry at times, but nothing enters. This in itself I know will eventually comeback. The
real thing why I'm mentioning this is, every morning, I used to go at Tim Hortons, I'd have a medium iced capuccino (This is sugar central), a bagel or breakfast
sandwitch, and a chocolate chip muffin. This was a lot of food, and not good one.

In a sense, the pain of the breakup made it so I was able to cut that morning crave/lazyness I had to go and grab my lunch almost on the daily with ease. Overall,
this is very positive, I now only eat 1 toast with hazelnut spread on it and a small glass of 1% milk.

How bad is it for my body to drastically reduce my breakfast intake this much? Or is it good? Will my morning apetite reduce itself to what I'm eating now overtime?
I am trying to lose weight, but I'm not going crazy on this, only cutting really bad stuff from my diet, and overall trying to eat less, though right now I don't really have
to try.

&#x200B;

I guess I'd also have a follow up question : Is it harmful or bad that I'm going on my daily run of about 2-4K - on barely any food, since I don't eat very much right
now? I understand ideally I'd want some calories in, something to sustain myself, but in the matter that I currently can't eat/don't feel like it at all, is it such a terrible
thing to do?
What do yall think of this cutting diet?
I'm 5'9 170 pounds.

2,500 40%30%30% carbs,protein,fat.

I would be getting 250g of carbs 188g of protein and 83g of fat.
The bar hits my dick when I deadlift. Is that normal?
Did anyone here tried forearm curls? And did they add mass to your fore arms?
My grip is starting to fail me doing romanian deadlifts. Been progressing a lot the past couple of weeks but my grip is lacking a lot and I feel like I'll be stuck at my
current weight for a while because of it. Anything I can do except being patient until my grip catches up?
Been to the gym for a month now however I go exceptionally hard yesterday and now I feel muscle pain. Should this be the normal thing or I gotta go easier?
When doing a routine that focuses on multiple muscle groups, such as an upper lower split, do you normally do all the exercises for a single group consecutively or
mix them up? For example let’s say you were working the chest, back and shoulders, would you do all of one, then the next then the last? Or would you do one
chest, one back, one shoulder, before going circling around and doing another chest, back, shoulder, etc until done?
When bulking, what do you do if you gain too much weight in one week? For example, this past week I gained 1.7 pounds instead of the recommended 0.5-1.0. Do I
cut this next week? Or do I monitor and adjust from here? Thank you!
• Workout A
Squat 5x5
Bench 5x5
Row 5x5
Dips x50
• Workout B
Squat 5x5
OHPress 5x5
Deadlift 1x5
Pull-Ups x50
• Rest Day
Triceps Push Downs
Barbell Curls

How is this workout routine? Main goal is as much muscle as possible
I've been running 531 for beginners and one of Hal Higdon's running plans for a bit now, and so far I'm really happy with what I'm doing. Am I missing out on
anything important if I just stick with this for a while? I guess another way of asking is once I stop getting benefits from 531 for beginners, is there any reason *not*
to just replace it with another 531 template?
6'4 34 years old male : Long story short I've been kicking ass at my diet. Im down to 283 from 317. Hovering around 2k calories a day so big deficit but manageable.
About 6 weeks ago I start going to the actual gym. When I first start going my natural strength had me pushing up 205x2 or 210x1 on a good day. After 3 weeks I
decide to max again and I can't even get 200x1. I decided it was just a bad day so i waited another week ish and tried it again and still can't get 200.

My arms are looking so good. Biceps and forarms are the biggest they've been in forever. Stomach is sooo much smaller. I feel healthier but fuck if it doesn't suck
to not see actuall strength get better.

Its hard to get to my protein goal everyday and keep in deficit. I'm already drinking maybe 120 grams a day then whatever food i work into my diet.

Am I just fucked on strength gain until i hit my goal weight of 215?

https://imgur.com/gallery/c0scna9
What are some good 3 day routines that you like that aren't in the wiki?
Need some ideas for leg day exercises with bulging disc. I currently do split squats and reverse lunges.
Stability ball hyperextensions: can anyone link me to a throughly vetted tutorial on how to do these? I’ve seen so many variations that I’m just more lost than I was
before.

Mainly I’m wondering if the chest is ever supposed to lift above lower back while in this for.
How often do you guys take full on lifting breaks? (1-2 weeks). I’ve been lifting for 3 years and other then my selected off days and being sick I don’t really take
breaks
novice here: of all the exercises i struggle to get a decent M-M connection and pump for the lat pull down.

Is it mechanically possible to do a lat pulldown (with good form) without using the lats at all? if not then i guess i should just perservere, right?
Are there any DIY ways to add 1 or 2 lbs to a barbell or dumbbell?
Say a person was bulking at +0.5 lb/week, working full-body, and gaining 0.25 lb of muscle per week. If they hypothetically stopped doing legs, would they still gain
0.25 lb/week, all to the upper body, or would they start gaining <0.25 lb/week of muscle and more fat to compensate? I imagine it's somewhere in between, but I'm
curious.

I'm 17M and get around 140g of protein a day, but since changing my diet I've got headaches (used to get ~70g a day). Should I reduce my protein intake? I could
do so for a few days and see if it helps the headaches, but if I can't eat enough protein I won't gain weight\ muscle right?
How can I make it easier for me to breath longer underwater?


**Questions about 531 Boring but Big**

Does it really matter what day/order I do the lifts in, e.g. press on Monday, deadlift on Tuesday, bench on Thursday and squat on Friday.



I saw some different variations on what week should be what percentage. Does it matter if the first week is 65%, 75%, 85%, the second week 70%, 80%, 90%, the
third week 75%, 85%, 95% in contrast to the first week 70%, 80%, 90%, the second week 65%, 75%, 85%, and the third week 75%, 85%, 95%. What is
recommended, or if it even matters?



What should the rest between the sets be, during the main lifts, the BBB 5x10, and the additional assistance work?



What are the recommended assistance exercises per lift, per day? And what setsxreps should that also be?




I appreciate any help!
Is it ok to do a full body workout 5 times a week? Or Do I have to target a certain area everyday?

Also, do I have to switch up the workouts once in a while ? Cuz I workout at home and i got my own set of dumbbells.
First cut and done about 2 weeks of clean eating, lifting and cardio on a deficit so far(TDEE).

Noticed that I’ve lost weight but the weight has not dropped on my scales. Do I -

Keep going as scales can be inaccurate - potentially as I’m training for hypertrophy could I could be losing fat and gaining muscle?

Or drop the calories even more than I have already
Thoughts on doing triceps skullcrushers with straight bar?
I’m looking forward to buy a new pair of gym shoes. Any advices on what to look for? Will be doing squats, deadlifts, etc
Any advice/healthy tips for me as I start visiting fitness? I decided to really get myself healthier and in shape so any advice on how to maintain the discipline and not
just quit halfway through would be really appreciated.
I just joined a gym today, and am wanting to both lose fat and gain muscle, working out m-f. What's a good cycle or split for getting started?
I ate like absolute shit this weekend and neglected my routine. Currently trying to slow bulk. Won’t be in the gym until tomorrow. Can I eat less/cleaner for a few
days and use the excess I ate over the weekend? Or is that already stored as fat?
Started taking lifting more seriously about a month ago, but I’ve been training for maybe 2-3 months. Is it a good or bad idea to start taking creatine at this point?
Can excessive stress/depression/anxiety have a negative effect on one’s fitness or muscular growth? I’ve been dealing with such issues for a while and I’ve been
wondering if it’s normal to feel bad(mentally) due to regular intense exercise.
**Pull Day:**



Cleans / Clean DL Shrug 4x8

Weighted Pull-ups / Chin-ups 4x8

DB Row 4x8

Single Leg Squat / Shrug 4x8

Straight Bar Curl 3x10

DB Curl 3x12

Ab Work



**Push Day:**



Back Squat 4x6

Back Hyper / RDL 3x10

Lying Leg Curls 3x10

DB Press 4x8

DB Incline Press 4x7

DB Flies 3x12

Weighted Dips 3x8

Lying Triceps Extension 4x12

Ab Work




Intending on running this 4 or 6 days a week. The ones with "/" will be switched back and forth between exercises. Any suggestions? Will running this 6 days a week
be overkill?
If I'm going to do a routine such as ppl am I supposed to do a set then move on to the next exercise until I've done all 5 movements and repeat or do I do all the
sets of the first exercise then move on to the next movement?
When should I think about using a weightlifting belt for my squats, deadlifts, and oh presses?

One friend tells me to only use when my bracing technique is perfect and another tells me fuck that, use it right away to avoid injury.

So 2 different ideas and they both have solid reasoning behind them so idk what to do.
How does my body adapt when I exercise more? Before now, I could run slowly and get tired fast. Now I can run faster without getting too tired.
Can the SL 5x5 program get you big and jacked like the other programs? Iv added pullups,dips,barbell curls and tricep pushdowns to it as well. It's just that i see
people talking about how its for strength and not that good for muscle gains
What’s the rep range for hypertrophy? My workouts mostly consist of 4-6 reps so should i go for more?I’ve noticed i am not putting on much muscle anymore could
it be due to do the low rep range?I eat above tdee
[deleted]
i’m 5’4, 18M with garbage posture (atp), and i’ve been working out, alternating between strength training and cardio each day, eating my TDEE, which is 1500
calories (or whatever that acronym for how many calories you should eat in a day is)i’ve been doing it for a week and i actually gained 2 pounds

i’m really confused here, i went from 152 pounds to 154
So I want to have a very muscular carved out of stone physique and I need to know am I doing the right stuff starting with my diet.
Also to give insight I’m 21 years old, 5’4 & 130 pounds and my goal is to get very muscular and about 150 pounds.

I never really eat processed foods I cook everything I eat.

Breakfast I eat slow cooker steal cut oats with a vanilla protein shake with fruit.

Then For lunch I eat sheet pan sausage and veggies/ I also switch the type of veggies up every week so I won’t get bored eating the same thing/ 1 week I’ll put
sweat potatoes and squash then the next week I’ll put red potatoes and bell peppers

Also if anybody can think of another sheet pan protein besides sausage let me know please.

Then after that I eat a container of pasta.
I switch up the type of pastas I eat every week/ 1 week Ill eat Italian pasta salad then the next I’ll make primavera pasta salad then Greek pasta salad after that

Then for snacks I make homemade peanut butter protein balls and frozen yogurt bark with fruit in it.

Then I’ll eat some fruit like an apple or grape fruit or banana

Then I might drink a protein shake after that

Then finally for dinner I eat a chicken recipe with a different type of creamy sauce every week with veggies like spinach and green beans and potatoes.

Example: 1 week I’ll make creamy Dijon chicken and teriyaki chicken then the next week I’ll eat creamy sun dried tomato Parmesan chicken and chipotle adobo
chicken. The veggies I add depend on the type of chicken marinade.

I also drink lots of water through out the day

That’s all I eat through the day.

For my workouts Mon/Wed/Friday I do biceps and triceps and legs

Then Tuesday/Thursday I do chess and back

Every day I do 100 push ups and 60 sit ups.

Is there anything I should add or anything I can tweek. Fitness and being muscular is a deep passion of mine. I like looking good lol.
Recommendations for boosting appetite? I'm trying to maintain a 3000-calorie diet and I cannot force myself to eat even 2500.

EDIT: Consensus seems to be 'eat more cheeseburgers' which let me tell you will not be hard
Is [this](https://imgur.com/a/zwOWr3A) good progress for 8 weeks of training? First picture of each is the old photo.

I have two months to get my body fat as low as possible. My upper abs are already visible, so I’m not at all that much body fat already.
Already tracking calories, eating more protein, and doing cardio. What should I keep in mind while doing it?
I am currently on a cut and have reached 20% bf from 24% bf.I look skinny fat now.
Should I continue my cut to below 15% bf and then go on a lean bulking phase or start bulking now?
[deleted]
My first day of 531bbb I did squat and got sore for 4 days, possibly more, feel like I destroyed my legs, is this normal? Did I overcalculated my 1rm?

Yesterday I did chest and I felt it was too easy, today I don't feel sore

I'm i doing something wrong?
Hey guys!! I am on a deload right now.. planning to change my workout plan after 2 months now. The workout plan is not completely changed I just added a couple
of exercise to increase the intensity. I added the workouts which I like doing. Really appreciate if u have a look at it. :- [My 90 min Workout]
(https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZuF8HF2AdxTZDy6u1pSW0Z-k1YKGEWA8/edit?usp=drivesdk&ouid=114760877022768607311&rtpof=true&sd=true)


[My 60 min Workout ( Which i am following right now)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UoxFR5_0DNt6WKuiojaMe_ESSjg1eX6YK40s2m4zOlc/edit?
usp=drivesdk)

I lowered the rep range of dead lift as it drains my energy out and I can't perform other exercises effectively.
Looking to start lifting weights in the morning (6/7am) instead of my usual 1 or 2pm workouts. If I don’t have much time after waking up to eat what is the best foods
to consume quick that will digest fast?
Can you really only consume 40g of protein in one sitting to have it be used for muscle synthesis (as opposed to the excess being turned into glycogen)? Or is that
just BS bro science?
I want to make a transformation from fat( I am 19(F) weighing 50Kg with 30% body fat) to slim thick. Does one have to go to gym or Can home workouts also help
achieve the same results? if yes,Could you recommend some youtuber or a workout plan I can follow?
Around 14% bodyfat and still struggling with proper chest definition due to not having a properly defined chest by genetics.

Just need to know how to get that upper chest poppin'?

5'8 @175lbs
When you forget to eat your snack (greek yogurt with fruit of choice), would it be fine to eat them right after dinner? or is it still best to spread them across 2 hours?
(E.G 6 PM Dinner, 8 PM Greek Yogurt)
Db or barbell curls?
I might be overthinking this, but I’ve been following a upper/lower program for a month now, seeing decent progress, but a friend suggested I start working out
chest/triceps, back/biceps, shoulders and legs. Would that be a better program towards getting lean, as all I want is to look lean and have a wide back.

I’ve also tried some of the recommended routines from here before going to the upper/lower.

Thanks!
Lean gain tips?
Workout (official)
5x5 main events!!! Deadlift( your choice)

_____PUSH______
,Bench
,Incline bench/ dips (rotate)
,Shoulder press

_____LEGS_______
Squat/deadlift (Rotate),
,Hex-bar
,Lunges

_____PULL______
T-bar ,
,Bent over rows [three grips]
,Pull ups

Is this a solid program. I checked the 5x5 but honestly it’s hard because I don’t know the right way of doing it. And it kinda confused me. Also I like doing other
exercises. So I decided to change some things. What do u guys think?

Also this is for strength training.
Hello, quick question. I train fullbody 3x per week (3 pull,3push,3 legs exercises). I dont do any isolations for arms, but now i want to add some. I want to ask, what
is better for growth, if i add 1-2 quick sets for bic/tric at the end of every workout (so 3x per week) or i will do like 4 sets for bic/tric but just 1x per week in one if my
workout sesions. Ty
Thoughts on cardio during a cut? Predominantly doing a PPL workout, starting to see some visible results finally after 3-4 weeks.
Obviously I’m hoping to minimise muscle loss (high protein intake, creatine etc).
What’s the thoughts of finishing up with a 10 minute jog on the treadmill after the workout? Helps with the deficit I suppose, but there’s no scientific reason for it to
jeopardise my muscle retention no?
Is two days a week enough to see significant gains? In addition to doing Judo three times a week and having a very physichal job Im not sure I can handle going to
the gym three times a week. But if I will see way more results that way I'll force myself I guess
My whole left side of body is bigger than right. My chest, triceps, biceps, shoulders, and back on my left is bigger than right. It is also stronger than my right. I can
tell especially when I do bicep curls. My right kinda struggles but my left does them just fine. I do unilateral excerisizes and do extra reps on the smaller/weaker side
but it doesn't seem to help. My left grows bigger but my right still grows a lil bit. Even after a workout my left is more sore than right side and the soreness on my
right doesn't last long. Even the next day my left will be sore but my right side not. What do I do?
is 750 - 800 cal deficit too much to retain muscle mass? im around 220 pounds and have around 28% body fat
Can I go for jogging and resistance training in the same day? If so how long should my jogging be?
How far apart should i spread my legs during squat? Cuz when I'm doing squat it feels like my hip bones are press into my thigh a lot and it feel really tight and
uncomfortable. One thing i feel that help with this is spread my legs out during the descend, but it feels like if i spread too much my quads are not involved as much
hello guys. I'm 6'1-2 and today I weighted 165.5 pounds. I have been stressed because im moving up in weight and it's scary. I wonder, is this considered low
weight for my height? should I be bulking? is this normal weight?
Thinking about getting all my daily carbs out of my oatmeal powder to make consuming them quicker and easier, good or bad idea? (I am trying to cut at \~1800
kcal)
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
[deleted]
Do deadlifts work lower body more or back?

And what is the best type of curl for biceps? In your opinion

Two random questions I’ve thought about over my first few months lifting
So im doing smolov jr and im on the last day and im just wondering if i should lower the weight if i fail a set?
Is it possible to make oatmeal with muscle milk for a quick high protein breakfast?
I'm trying to progress to using a barbell, currently the regular ones are still too heavy for me. I found a beginners barbell at my gym, unfortunately it doesn't fit in any
of the racks or safety equipment due to being smaller than the regular ones. So I only feel comfortable using it for deadlifts on the platforms. I do want to try doing
rows with them as well soon. But Bench Press/Overhead Press/Squats feel way to scary to try without the safety equipment.


I'm not sure if this fear is warranted or if I'm just holding myself back, does anyone have tips or insights on this?
What are some good 4 days training program? I prefer it being an upper-lower split but I'm open to other splits. I'm currently on the last week of Jeff Nippard's 4 day
upper-lower program and I really like that it shows you how much weight you should use and shows which RPE should you do.
What is the best exercise to hit the side delt and obliques at the same time, if you don't have much time for accessories in your workout?
[deleted]
Does it make sense to perform planks in multiple sets or should I do one set until failure ?
Does any have any progressive core strengthening and stability programs?

I'm looking for something that I could add on to my current lifting program (SL5x5 with a few accessories added). I really want something that targets the whole
core.
Debilitating pain in elbow radiating down forearm and hand today from bench.

I was going for 3 sets of 5 @ 315 but after my first set, the pain was unbearable. Dropped to 285 6 sets of 8 and pushed through the pain. I couldn’t finish the rest of
my chest and tricep workout adequately enough. I immediately iced it now when I got home.

Is there any work around this? Dropping weight and working for more reps seems like it’ll irritate my elbow further.

Any suggestions to keep up gains at least at a hypertrophic level?
Does it make sense to do accessory or so-called “vanity” lifts in addition to the Big Four when on a deficit/when your goal is primarily fat loss as a beginner?
anyone have experience taking Anavrol? opinions?
Just wanted to raise a concern. I am right handed and tend to lean towards my right when standing. Anyway, I've been working out since last year but mainly
focused on abdominal workout. I noticed that whenever i worked out, my right knee would pop. Since around May of this year, i've started working on my thighs and
butt since my thighs are fat and my butt is quite flat. I mainly do glute bridges and sumo squats. I did stop for the past month or so since i have been experiencing
some knee pain on my right. I noticed that the popping of my right knee has become more often and would hurt from time to time. I've also been putting much
pressure on my right leg because of the way i clean my dog's cage. Earlier i was working out and i noticed my right thigh was a lot thinner than my left. My right calf
muscle is more toned than the right tho. I measured my thighs and there was .5 inch difference between the left and right. I'm worried that my muscle is going
through atrophy or there's just something wrong in general because it didn't look like this before. Any of your inputs would help!!!
I've been doing triceps rope pushdowns ever since I started them with a dead stop after every rep but I've noticed that pretty much everyone else in my gym is
holding the weight between reps. Am I doing them wrong?
Where do people buy clothes that fit well? Everywhere I shop, the pants look like skinny jeans on me, and the shirts look like in wearing a shmedium. The problem
is if I go up a size in shirts the torso has a bunch of extra space, and the pants waist size just ends up being way too big. I also dont want to pay to have everything
tailored.
[deleted]
how can i prevent knee pain the next day after back squatting?
[deleted]
Are there any implications in the timing of consumed calories? Of course, in the long run, CICO applies. I’m no stranger. But what are the differences in how the
body handles eating once a day versus multiple? Surely there must be some.
Is [Mythical's Training for Mass ](https://www.reddit.com/r/gainit/comments/j5q2ez/6_months_of_eating_and_training_for_mass_laid_out/?
utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share)
suitable for a beginner or is it more for the int/advanced lifter?
I hear people having issues with lower back pain when squatting. I’ve never had that issue before, does it mean my back has gotten much stronger? I cannot feel
squats in lower back at all, and I don’t use a brace
How on earth are you supposed to breathe while doing a stomach vacuum? It completely takes you out of the exercise by expanding your abdominal cavity. Unless
this is normal. I’ve seen conflicting info and it’s frustrating
I'm coming back to the gym after some rotator cuff issues (that I got PT for) that I took about 6 months to heal. I'm a rookie at the gym, and after 3 days of lifting I'm
not feeling any pain but it's definitely more tender than the other shoulder. Should I keep grinding as long as there is no pain or should I take a different approach?
Should I be using a straight bar over a hex bar for deadlift? I get good contractions with the hex bar and am able to lift greater amounts, but everywhere I look on IG
and tiktok, people are using straight bars. Is there a right bar to use?
If I start cutting and end up losing like 5-10 lbs, do I add that amount to weighted chin ups/dips accordingly? Not cutting yet, but just a thought I had.
Hi All. My Gf(F30) and I(M30) have started working out for about 8 weeks mostly on machines. We are both over weight and slowly getting our calorie deficit in
check. As for the exercise, we understand free weights are better than machines for stabilization and would like to slowly transition to that until we can afford a
personal trainer. Our current goal is to lose weight and look lean but be a lot stronger than we are for health reasons.

We currently work out Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday and would like to keep it to those days if possible. Some things to note: GF has weak knees (two ACL
surgeries). We do the same exercises and I don’t mind if I progress slower that way. GF swims twice a week as well.

Our current routine follows:
Sun: Planks, Back Extension Machine, Torso Rotation Machine, Arm Curl Machine
Mon: Leg Curl Machine, Leg Press, Leg Extension Machine, Hip Adduction & Abduction.
Wed: Pull Down Machine, Chest Press Machine, Row Machine, Shoulder Press machine, tricep push down machine, Fly machine

We started incorporating some body weight and dumbbell/kettlebell work outs from the recommended guides but we are not sure what they should replace: Floor
Press (dumbbell), Straight legged deadlift (dumbbell), seated shoulder press (dumbbells), Lunge/squats (these are very difficult for her knees), wall pushups, calf
raises.

Since we are including compound exercises, what should we stop doing in the machines? We need help optimizing our current routine until we can get a PT to help
with transitioning to barbell workouts. We don’t trust ourselves with knowing correct form.
Can someone recommend me a good bench press focused workout to try ?
my right side seems more dominant than my left side when doing air squats.. I can not yet do one leg squats.. should I power through and keep doing them even
though they feel off? and my hips dont hurt but feel funny after. hard to explain how they feel after but it is for sure off

might need to mention I was sick and pretty much bed ridden for a long while. and was previously really active. and for almost 2 years not so much at all if any
Those who wear contact lenses, specifically the 1/day ones that aren't meant to be re-used, does that affect what time of the day you workout (since you have to
take them out to shower)? I feel like I'm now in a binary between working out early in the morning without them, and putting them on after I shower, or late at night
and taking them off before I shower. I do workout mostly from home so it's not too big a deal since everything is in 1 place, but I'm curious what others' preferences
are.
When do you guys change programs? I'm nearing the end of my second cycle of GZCLP, have been running it for almost 10 months at this point. Honestly no
complaints and loving the program, but my max lifts are only a little bit higher now than they were the first cycle (about 10lbs or so higher for each lift). Wondering if
I could get better strength/muscle growth results by changing programs, I'm thinking 531.

Thoughts? When do you start to think about changing programs?
Due to having a lateral pelvic tilt I have muscle assymetries. My right quad, lat, tricep, bicep, forearm and anterior delts are visibly bigger than my left. Im currently
at a high bodyfat % and want to cut, Should I fix these assymetries before I cut or is it possible to fix them during the calorie deficit? Thanks.
Anybody got a good no-frills app for couch to 5k? I don't need all the location tracking etc, just something that times the runs and the walks
[deleted]
How can I increase my protein/caloric intake while living with parents and eating the meals they cook?
Hello

When I did shrimp squats, I felt pain in my knee. So, I stop to did it for a week. And then I tried to did it again. First round OK, second, again felt pain. It's not a lot of
pain, but I don't want to force my knee.
What can I do for that? Any recommended exercise that can help to strengthen my knee without that pressure and for substitution for shrimp squats?
Thanks
Are you sure they weren’t just warming up or doing something like cluster sets or a superset?

Either way, if you ever have questions in the gym, seriously ask them. You know we’re all in the gym to get better, so by asking someone advice you’re basically
validating their hard work. Might make their day!

>How long should I rest

Big compound lifts can be anywhere from 2 to 5 minutes or more depending on what you’re doing. Isolations I like to do 30 to 90 seconds depending.
Big heavy lifts - wait longer. Smaller and lighter accessories - wait less.
Rest until you feel like you can complete the planned set.
This was a great explainer https://youtu.be/qTu7s2dXQYs
As long as necessary to recover for the next set, unless you have a specific reason to do otherwise.

Ideally you'll want to be in good enough shape that this doesn't blow out.
It depends on your goals, how much time you have and how heavy you lift. And other things. There's no answer. Do you think you're resting too long? Would you
want to rest less? If you're doing starting stength as prescribed there is no problem resting 15 minutes if that's what you need. It all depends.
[Longer rests are generally better for lifting more weight which is better](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XXf8fhMHxSw) but if you're resting so long you can't do
as many sets as you'd like in the time you have then obviously it's worse so hard to find the trade off. make your rests as long as you can in the time you have is
probably optimal.

For me, some really tiring things like Squats and Deadlifts are 3 - 4 minutes, bench or rows could be 2 - 3, machines and accessories could be down to 1:30 but
even then thats just for fitting it in in a timely manner, if i was ok with spending 2 hours every time i go to the gym i could double those rest times and it'd probably
be better for my results in the end.

Only time I'd go below that to 1 minute would be if I'm doing a superset of two different exercises.
None of this is bad.

All that matters is your overall daily caloric intake.

Running fasted is also fine. Even running daily.

No this is not terrible.
Going on a run with less food isn’t necessarily harmful, but it’ll make the run harder.

As for everything else, cutting out all those calories also isn’t bad in a vacuum but if you were at a consistent weight before and you’re getting 1000 less calories a
day now, you’re going to drop 2 pounds a week and that isn’t sustainable for very long.
It's not that drastic. It's not at all bad. Your body will adapt, and it already has. Probably it's good for you because as you say the routine wasn't really healthy.
Just want to say you're off to a great start, and I think you have what it takes to keep improving your diet, fitness, attitude, and overall health. I also want to say that
Timmies is an embarrassment to our country. Cheers bud!
If you are losing weight, then it is fine.
As good as any. Tho this tells us nothing about the diet and what kind of deficit you'll be in.

But if it is a deficit, that protein figure is good. Doesn't matter what makes up the rest of the macros.
no. you should be wearing clothes in the gym.

depending on the length of your arms, the bar will end somewhere around the height of your hips, so it's reasonable that your ending position might put the bar
around crotch level.
how short are your arms bro?
Yes perfectly possible
Just watched a really good Bromley video where he analyses how everyone has different leverage for their deadlift, depending on torso, arm, and leg lengths. You'll
see that at the top position, the bar is barely above the knees for some people while it's at crotch level for others like you.

https://youtu.be/V8VpZc4LZTs
I still do that on my pull days. the only other forearm exercise I do are reverse curls.
Use straps. They're a fantastic tool for RDLs.
Use mixed grip until your grip strength either catches up (unlikely fast enough) or until you get straps.
I personally use a mixed grip when I HAVE to on deadlift movements. You can also get straps. Either one of these will work.

I would also suggest programming in some grip work on the same day that you do RDLs. Farmer carry, heavy dumbbell shrugs, dead hangs for time, bumper plate
carries, etc.
your back muscles have a much higher potential growth than your grip/forearms.

nothing wrong with using straps!
Pain or soreness? Soreness is expected when starting out and you should continue to train through it. Pain is not normal under any circumstance and should be
brought to the attention of a professional.
Is it actual pain or just soreness?
From my experience, probably DOMS. Take an extra rest day when you need to, when the peak of the ‘pain’ has passed go to the gym again. You’ll find working
out will make the pain subside.
I follow what the program says
Doesn’t really matter
If I understand you right you’d want to do all of one set, then move onto another exercise. Read the faq it’ll spell it all out
Just monitor for another week and adjust if needed. More than likely half of it is water weight
I honestly wouldn't worry about it. Being O.7 lbs above the target is within the margin of error.

Keep going and just adjust as needed if you continue to gain too rapidly.
I don't weigh myself such that there is no way I gain too much weight in one week. I just focus on seeing the numbers go up in the gym and my recovery from
training.
Pick one of these instead: https://thefitness.wiki/routines/strength-training-muscle-building/#Barbell_Compound_Lift_Focused_Routines

GZCLP or greyskullz is basically what you have here but put together by people who forgot more about training than most of us will ever learn. It will be better for
you, they have progression and fatigue management etc built in.
Rather poor. Check out our wiki for [What to look for in a routine](https://thefitness.wiki/faq/is-this-lifting-routine-any-good/) as well as a [list of good routines]
(https://thefitness.wiki/routines/strength-training-muscle-building/) that others have seen success with.
That is fairly similar to how I structured my training for many years and it’s fine.
What's important to you?
Are you following a program? Randomly deciding when to try your max is less effective than following a program
you could track your strength progress relative to bodyweight instead of in absolute terms. if you can hit 200x1 at 283 lbs, that's a 0.71x bodyweight bench vs 210x1
at 317 which is 0.66x bodyweight. it's likely that your smaller belly has resulted in increased ROM on the bench, which will make the lift more difficult.
This is normal when you first start lifting again. You will have initial muscle breakdown, especially if you went harder than you should have on your first day back.
Your muscles will start to figure out how to get back into it (increased energy efficiency, stores, etc.). Find a good program you like and stick to it. A 3x5 to 5x5 with
the golden 6 will help with overall strength. Keep up the solid work!

I’m not sure your 2000cal/day will be sustainable. I know it sounds crazy but a great place to start with basic food comprehension is weight watchers. They have an
app, it’s easy to follow and you can pick up long term healthy habits to improve your lifestyle not just a fad diet or crash diet.
I don’t have anything to add besides the fact that I am also losing weight, starting at 317, now at 283 lol. Just thought that was funny. Good luck on the rest of your
journey.
Super Squats

DoggCrapp
Step ups, but make sure the step height is low enough that your knees are at the same height or slightly lower than the hips. For most people that's a 10"-12" step
height.

You could also try RDLs or SL RDLs. Or try an SL RDL movement w/no weight but keep the spine more vertical and reach forward with the arms at about a 45
degree angle. That's more of a rehab exercise, but it helps build core stability that can assist w/other exercises.

Every one is different, but I have a herniated L4/L5 and can do goblet squats, leg press, and RDLs with little problem (plus the exercises described above).
I would ask a physical therapist for ideas.
Behind the back deadlifts are basically hack squats, and load the lower back very differently. If you're comfortable with an upright posture Zercher squats get a lot
out of relatively light weight.
No one here can give you a qualified advice to what you can or can't do. We can't do anything about the bulging disc, some recommend doing back extensions
since in theory it can help push the bulging disc back in, since its not herniated.

Have you talked with a physio or have an MRI since you know its a bulging disc?
If I go on vacation I pretty much take off
Whenever surgery forces it to happen
Never. Why would you?
no answer, but i want to see this later
The only reason to take a full break is for mental health. Although deload weeks are a necessity if you lift constantly
If I'm forced to travel somewhere for like vacation or something. Otherwise never.
No, it's not possible to do a lat pulldown without using the lats. Yes, you should just persevere.
it is not mechanically possible to do the movement without the lats being the primary muscle worked.
Try doing some warmup sets where you just flex the lats. The bar won't move but a little bit
> i struggle to get a decent M-M connection and pump for the lat pull down.

MMC / pumps aren't required. I don't "feel it" for the most part.
The biggest issue with lat pulldown form is bicep and forearm coming in instead of lats.


Pay attention to your elbow joint and your wrist joint when doing lat pulldown.


If your elbow joint moves too much then you are using too much bicep.


If your wrist joint moves too much then you are using too much forearm.


Those two joints don't have to be completely static but you do want to limit movement there.
No it's not possible and yeah that's right. Don't be afraid to do more sets. Some exercises are less 'disruptive' than others, but you'll feel it if you just do more sets,
e.g. lat pulldown, lateral raise, leg curl/extension. If you usually do 3 sets per exercise try doing 4-5 with these.
I find that I can “feel it” better with lighter weights and holding the contraction. But I also do some sets at higher weights where I may not be able to pause the
contraction.
Industrial metal washers.
One way I can think of is using an extra pair of weight clips depending on what they weigh. Or something like wrist or ankle weights maybe idk.
You can get plates right down to like a quarter of a pound, otherwise you can use something like a light chain or just tie a small plate or ankle weight etc to the
middle of the barbell or onto the dumbbell
more fat to compensate


the rules of thumb about novices gaining 0.5lb of mass per week, of which up to half is muscle, is contingent on at least semi-optimal training
Well, I've had to cut out squats due to a torn meniscus as per the doctor's orders, so I guess I'll find out. :(

I did ramp up my bench volume considerably though to twice a week and I'm still training deadlifts. I don't think the math works out quite so nicely as a simple
formula in the real world.
A question as old as time. But you'll gain more fat. Your whole collections of muscles can gain that .25, not your body can only create that amount of muscle
You planning on skipping legs?
Headaches could be from cutting something else (sugar / coffee) from your diet.

Make sure you're drinking enough water, too.
Post hoc ergo propter hoc

That said, a few days with less protein will not affect your progress one iota. Try it, see what happens.
Protein powder can be pretty hard on your hydration level, so first recommendation would be drinking more water.
1. Doesn’t matter. Order them to your preference.
2. Doesn’t matter. Some people like having the 65/75/85 on week 2 as a mini-deload in the middle of the program, but it’s not necessary.
3. Rest as long as you need to in order to be ready for the next set. If you need 10+ minutes of rest, then you’re most likely skipping the conditioning work. Don’t
skip the conditioning work.
4. 25-50 total reps of a Push, 25-50 total reps of a Pull movement, and 0-50 total reps of a single-leg/core movement. I like to pick something and do 3x10 on week
1, 4x10 on week 2, then 5x10 on week 3. But you can arrange the total reps however you like.
What day/order doesn’t matter, why would it? Although of course, maybe not the best idea to put squat and dead’s back to back or something.

The first variation is 531, the second is called 351, both are ok and both are used. In 351 there’s usually no amrap set on the last main set, thus giving you a small
“deload” before the 1+ amrap. Both work.

Rest time is up to you to decide, rest as long (or as short) as you need. But it is recommended to finish the main lift (work sets + supplemental) within 30 minutes,
iirc?

25-50 reps of push and pull exercises, 0-50 of core/single leg exercises. Up to you to decide which exercises you want to do, how many setsXreps. the total reps is
what matters.

BBB (and most other 531 variants) really rely on you being a big boy and being able to make some decisions.
If you smoke a body part 5x a week, you'll end up injuring it. Programing is about balance. If your frequency is high then you just have to lower the volume and/or
intensity.

I'm actually about to move to a full body 5x a week for a cut.
If a workout is working for you then I don't see much point in switching. Maybe change 1 or 2 of the exercises to something different so it doesn't become stale.
GZCL' and Stronger By Science both have x5 full body programs out there
Decrease calories. It's entirely possible that you've over estimated your TDEE and haven't been in a deficit at all.
2 weeks is a short period of time, you might only be looking at dropping 1 or 2 lbs in that time, and if you had a big meal or drink a lot of water is could hide your
results.

Increase you deficit and weight yourself again im a few weeks.

You should see a pretty fast weight lost when you first start cutting because of losing water weight (1-2 kg in first 2 weeks). So you should eat less if you didn't lose
any weight.
Do it and see how you feel. I like skull crushers (some of us aussies call them head bangers) if the bar doesn’t feel right switch to dumbbells with neutral grip
I don’t like the way it makes my elbows feel but if you like it, do it.
That’s how I do them.
If they work for you, then awesome. If not, with a straight bar, maybe checkout a 'JM press'. I do them incline with a swiss bar, sometimes, total tricep killers.
I got me a pair of chucks and they work well. I think having a flat sole is what's important.
Flats like vans, nike SB, converse do fine. Weightlifting shoes for squats and other stuff (leg press, split squats, lunges etc) if you are into that.
> any advice on how to maintain the discipline and not just quit halfway through would be really appreciated.

I always tell people to find a form of exercise they enjoy doing. Once you find something you enjoy, focus on making it a habit. After a few weeks you don't need
discipline because it'll have been a lifestyle change.
Find something you genuinely enjoy doing. Going to the gym can be that thing but my opinion is that it doesn't start out that way.

Biking, rec sports leagues, dancing classes, etc. I think this is key in making fitness a byproduct of doing something fun.
> I decided to really get myself healthier and in shape

This is why you are doing this. Your discipline, you have a goal and you are working towards it.

Finding things that help you with this will greatly help you. I find goals I want to pursue in fitness. For me its weight lifting and over time be stronger and stronger. I
have goals which I work towards.
wiki the best place to start

I was in your situation 6 months ago and i went for slight calorie deficit but high protein diet and have made good gains.

i chose PPL split as i wanted to go gym 5/6 times a week - each session being 50 minutes

others prefer and recommend a full body split 2/3/4 times a week but sessions being much longer.

thats completely your choice
Read the wiki
Two days of uncontrolled eating will have done little to nothing to you. Go back to your regular diet.
https://www.t-nation.com/lean-built-eating/oh-go-ahead-and-pig-out/
It's neither good nor bad. But you will get the benefits of it if you take it vs if you don't
I would say good idea, it's been widely researched and has a very strong safety profile with well documented benefits. I definitely perform better with creatine than
without.
Are you asking if stress has an impact on fitness or the other way around? Either way the only way to know would be to visit a specialist.
The only way to know if a certain amount of volume is doable is to try it and see how it goes. Different people can recover at much different rates from the same
programming. If you legitimately arent sure if this program makes sense for you, you probably shouldn’t be trying to write a program from scratch in the first place.
You learn programming better by running a quality prewritten program and making tweaks until you know what works for you than you do by trying to build from
nothing.
Do every set of each exercise before moving on unless it specifies otherwise
I'd say there's definitely merit in learning how to brace without a belt before using one, but you don't need to be "perfect". You said below that you've got 9-10
months lifting experience under your belt (ha), so you're more than ready.

The [belt bible](https://www.strongerbyscience.com/the-belt-bible/) is a good read, feel free to skim as it's quite lengthy but anything you want to know should be in
there somewhere.
Your 2nd friend is both right and wrong. Use it whenever you want, but it's not an injury prevention tool.
There's a lot of adaptations. Heart gets more efficient at pumping blood. Muscles build more mitochondria so that they can produce more energy. Blood vessels
expand to more efficiently deliver blood. Nerves adapt to more efficiently activate the muscles.
Yes it can work its just pretty low volume for a hypertrophy program. I'm personally biased towards high volume, as such I would recommend a program like the
reddit PPL.
5x5 just isn't a lot of volume. I think it is a good means of acclimating to weight lifting then moving to a program that focuses on what you want.
You can't get stronger without gaining muscle, so don't worry about that. Stronglifts 5x5 is a great way to get into lifting; stick with it till it stops working, and then
move to an intermediate program with more volume.
> What’s the rep range for hypertrophy?


Like 3-30 but its actually even wider than this.
>What’s the rep range for hypertrophy?

All of them.
Hypertrophy isn’t about rep range. It’s about things like mechanical tension, metabolic stress and muscle damage.

So you can technically do sets of 3 and get better hypertrophy than someone who does sets of 15. Even though it is widely considered that 12-20 is better for
hypertrophy, we cannot say this is true because science doesn’t directly confirm it. Once again you can theoretically get the same results with other rep ranges.

But science and theory is one thing. Reality is another.
I’d say a person that has to ask (a beginner) is MUCH better off doing mostly higher rep ranges for hypertrophy(15-30). Reasons being:

- weight not as heavy to ruin undeveloped form
- less injury risk due to the first point
- more muscle ‘burn’ and better development of mind muscle connection
- most importantly an ability to push yourself way harder than you would with heavy weight due to all the above

All the above will then help you lift heavy weights properly and be able to push hard on them too. And when you can do that, the rep range wont matter.
That doesn’t look uneven at all, just underdeveloped.
You can add some fats to your diet. Eating clean 3000 calories is hard. My favorite is just eating bunch of peanuts.
Fast food
Cardio increases appetite in some people. Your other option is to eat more calorically dense foods.
Just eat higher calorie foods. I eat pizza like 3-4 times a week, McDonalds 2-3 times a week. Not saying to follow my example directly but like “unhealthy” foods are
not the boogeyman, especially if they’re not your entire diet and they’re helping you reach a caloric surplus. Total calories and protein is literally 95% of the battle.
No offense but I can't really see a difference. Keep at it mate.
You can see some very slight improvement but 8 weeks is a fairly short period of time to. If you enjoy your workout and your lifts are improving then you making
progress.
Cant see much of a difference between the 2nd pair of photos but theres definetly some nice progress in the other 2, especially the back shot
Maintaining a sustainable calorie deficit.
How are you measuring your bodyfat %?
Depends on your goal
If it’s not a fitness question why post it this is for fitness questions. There will be another subreddit for the answer
Normal. You're probably just not used to that volume for legs and had more similar volumes for bench/pressing. People generally can do more for pressing and
back than for their legs, so pretty normal.
What did you do for conditioning?
>I'm i doing something wrong?

no, most people can handle much more pressing than leg exercises
5/3/1 starts off easy but it gets hard after a point. Just enjoy the prs while they last and follow the program.
It's normal. I just started again after not working out for years and squatting destroyed my legs. Waited until I felt better (~4-5 days), went again, and my legs felt
fine after the second time.
Simple carbs of any kind, but you don’t need to eat at all before you lift; I’ve trained fasted in the morning for years now and personally find I prefer it
If you need energy, sugars eaten alone will digest the fastest. Juice digests faster than whole fruit. Candy is even faster. Experiment and see what you prefer.
Extra protein basically hangs around in your gut until it’s needed. It takes a wayyy overconsumption before you have to worry about protein gluconeogenesis
I’m not sure what “slim thick” means but my guess is you just want to lose fat.
A caloric deficit is what you need in that case.
You're "fat" at 50kg/110lb?

I'm assuming "slim thick" means you want a big ass while the rest of you is thin. Hard to say whether that's achievable, but in order to lose fat you just need to be in
a caloric deficit. For workout plans you should consult the wiki linked at the top of the page.
Strongcurves is a good workout plan for your “slim thick” goal
Lose fat and gain more muscle. That's it, no special exercises or creams.
Either way is fine.
I'd do both.
Whichever you prefer, not a big difference
Neither of the thing you described are programmes, they’re just splits.

531BBB and NSuns 4 day are two good upper/lower splits from the recommended routines.

If you’re making good progress, there’s no need to change anything, especially after a month.
High protein, proper program, low surplus
300 calorie surplus.
Too little volume and only doing 5x5 isnt going to be all that fun after a while
5x5 is literally the simplest programme on the planet.
Very sub-optimal program due to extremely low volume
Whichever allows you to do more total sets as well.
Assuming your total volume is roughly the same and you're pushing yourself to or close to failure in both cases, the former (frequency)
10 minute jog is not gonna make any significant difference
As long as your deficit is consistent, you are getting enough protein, and you are training hard with weights, you should not have a problem with muscle retention
during your cut even with very large amounts of cardio. 10 minutes barely qualifies as any cardio so it’ll be fine.
Dry doing some incline walking on a treadmill for 30-45 minutes twice a week, very easy on the body and burns some calls
My advice is to try two days a week for 2-3 months. It you feel like you are making great gains, and you still feel like adding a third day isn't going to work, then just
keep going with two days. If you aren't happy with your progress or feel like you actually can handle another day then switch to three days.
You can absolutely grow with 2 days a week of resistance training.
Keep training, maybe do more dumbbell work
Its individual.

But any deficit over time will cause a loss in muscle mass eventually.

It really sepends on how long you are gonna be in this deficit, how consistent and effective your resistance training is and how much protein you're eating every
day.
Probably.
800 Cals is a heavy deficit so I’d say so
Yes. Just do jogging after resistance training for as long as you want.
Find where feels most comfortable for you and do that.
Try rotating your legs out a bit more, rather than focussing simply on width of stance. Just experiment until you find something that fits your physiology.
There's no "should" here. If you want to be bigger, eating more is how you do that. If you don't want to be bigger, not eating more is how you do that.
[deleted]
165 is fine for that height if you’re happy being skinny. If you want to gain muscle, though, that number will go up.

The decision to bulk is personal. If you like your current physique, why change anything? Keep doing what you’re doing, except maybe eat a little less because you
said your weight is increasing.

If you don’t like your physique, figure out what you want to look like and go from there. I wouldn’t get much lighter if I were you, but to each their own.
I think I personally would spread out my carbs during the day when I'm cutting. I feel like I would be very hungry if I couldnt eat small portions of carbs throughout
the day
Personally I eat food, not carbs.
There's a sidebar to this subreddit if you haven't noticed yet. It's got a good selection of decent workout routines to chose from. Alternatively you could always try
googling for other workouts if for some reason none of those suit. At the end of the day, whatever keeps you motivated and progressing is all that matters. It's
difficult though for anyone to give you a workout without understanding your goals and needs.
Pick a program from the wiki that matches your goals and schedule. It removes all the guesswork. Saves you building your own.
https://thefitness.wiki/routines/strength-training-muscle-building/#Barbell_Compound_Lift_Focused_Routines
Do the PPL in the wiki
Surprisingly, it's not as bad as I first thought based on the formatting of your text. However, I'd still advice you to have a look at the wiki and pick an actual program.
Do the PPL from the wiki. It’s better all around and is on the same schedule.
Lower body.

Any kind of curl. The specifics don't matter.
> And what is the best type of curl for biceps? In your opinion

If you want to really be nerdy about them, do them all. Preacher curls/spider curls for the maximum potential contraction/shortening of the muscle, incline curls for
the biggest stretch of the muscle. Normal barbell curls tends to be easier to handle heavier weights with. Pull ups (supinated grip/palms facing towards your) with
weights if doable. Hammer curls are great too.
Deadlifts work your legs more, but if your back is much weaker you’ll probably feel it there most until it catches up.

If I had to pick only one kind of curl to do it would be dumbbell preacher curls. You get the most extension and contraction of the muscle with these and I like
dumbbells so that I don’t favour my stronger arm with a barbell.
Normal curls
Preacher curls
As well as wide grip curls all work each part of the bicep pretty well
> Do deadlifts work lower body more or back?

Depends on what's weaker. The glutes/hips are driving the hinge, so ideally it should feel more like a 'leg press' than a 'good morning', but... IME you kinda feel it
'everywhere' unless something's wrong.

Checkout 'baysian curls', full contraction with constant tension, sick pump.
You shouldn't be failing sets on smolov jr. What are your rest times and what did you use as max (and what is the most you've actually done)? Are you doing
accessories outside of the main lifts, ifso what?
we dont have this in denmark, what is muscle milk? high(er) protein rich milk?
Like the other person said, dumbbells. You can drop them if you get stuck (watch your feet), and the weight is easy to adjust in 5lb increments.

That said, don’t be scared doing squats, bench, and overhead press with an empty barbell and no safety equipment.

Squatting and get stuck? Just drop the barbell. It’ll be loud, but the barbell will be fine and so will you.

Benching and get stuck? Gently lower the bar onto your belly, roll it to your hips, and sit up. Then grab it and stand up. It’s only 35 or 45 pounds; it won’t hurt you.

Overhead press and get stuck? Drop it if you must, or carefully lower it back to your shoulders and flip the bar down to your hips so that it looks like you’re at the
top of a deadlift, then manage the bar from there.

People emphasize safety for good reason, but a 45 pound dumbbell will only hurt you if you drop it on yourself, which should be easily avoidable.

But to reiterate, you can just use dumbbells instead until you’re lifting heavy enough to use a full size barbell. It won’t take long.
Most of the movements you want to achieve can be done with dumbells. Build you strength up through progressive overload with them and when you’re ready to
use the bar go for it.
Jon Andersen's Deep Water program

5/3/1 BBB Beefcake
There 2 fairly different muscles so there’s not many. Maybe a twisting overhead press variation on the cable? Basically alls I can think of
Can't you superset two accessories specific to each muscle group?
Hold a heavy DB in one hand and a light one in the other and perform DB side bends with the heavy one, while performing a lateral raise with the light one while in
the bent position.
Hold a side plank on the ground while doing a lying lateral raise.
You could do a variant of landmine twists.

Start with the bar out wide our on one side of your body, gripping the bars end with both hands & feet pointing towards the bar. With elbows just unlocked: use your
'inside' delt to drive the bar up over your head in a maximal 'rainbow' or 'windshield wiper' motion, and fight it on the way down with your oblique and the opposite
delt. Think long, slow, eccentrics and keep your hips fighting to stay forward. You won't need much load, but strict form will be rewarded. Twist your upper body
more before starting
 the upward motion and you can maybe pull some more rear delt into things.

Google 'landmine anti-rotations' to get a sense of the form :)
Are you using a dip belt? It shouldn't be awkward to put on 70 lbs if you have plates. I use a dip belt for pull-ups, chin-ups, dips, and squats.
Wouldn't see the point in doing just one set.
Multiple sets is better.
I've heard some people say that anything above a single set of an isometric makes no sense, and anything above 1 minute of planks makes no sense. I've been
wondering about that.
ab wheel rollouts
I like doing a circuit of ab wheel rollouts, flutter kicks, and V-Ups.

If you prefer statics then you could do planks, side planks, and supermans
You had "unbearable" pain in your elbow, and your first concern is to keep gains up?

Dude, see a doctor.
Re-evaluate your technique (bar position in hand?)
Dumbbell bench at levels that doesnt produce pain?
Sure, as long as the extra vanity lifts doesnt become so much that it interferes with the rest of your program and the programmed progression in the big four.

You are on a program, right?
I find that adding accessories are what actually help the main lifts when I start to stop progressing at them.

You can only do so many main lifts at a heavy weight (for you) safely and without feeling drained. Adding an accessory that is not so draining will still train the
muscle you are having difficulty with, without exhausting you so much.
r/Steroids or r/Bodybuilding my dude. Since it's a *legal alternative* I'd be willing to bet it doesn't do what it claims.
It's probably not as bad as you're thinking. Most likely you just have a bit of a strength imbalance, most people do. It could be caused by a lot of things but an easy
thing to do would be to test the difference in mobility between the legs and hips. Your right hip might be looser or tighter than the left and might cause a slight
difference in your form when you squat and stuff.
You’re not doing them wrong per se; you’re just pausing between reps. You miss out on a little bit of time under tension, but honestly, I doubt it makes much
difference.
what do you mean with "dead stop"?
If you want to train optimally then pause at the bottom(mid rep) and not at the top. Will make a small difference but will have effects in the long run
Letting the rope go all the way up each time might activate your back more, but as long as you're using your triceps (if that's the muscle you're trying to work) it
should be fine.
Gotta shop around. Some things will just fit you, some wont.

Once you find that, buy an entire new wardrobe of that item.
You can start tailoring your own clothes maybe?
Have you read the wiki?
Find out what’s causing the knee pain. Post a form check with multiple angles that show the knee. How old are you? Do you lift “heavy” and how often? How long
has this knee pain been going on? Do you wear sleeves? How long have you been lifting? Have you seen a doctor about it? Does it limit you? Just so little to go off
of here I don’t think you will get good advice.
Read the wiki.
Hitting macros is more important than when you get them, but there is evidence that suggests multiple meals over the day is better than slamming it all in at once.
Most anything will work for a beginner, including this if you EAT for it. Is it the best thing for someone who’s never touched a barbell in their life? Maybe not, but for
reasons other than its effectiveness.

Could always just u/MythicalStrength himself for his thoughts.
I think it's a good next step if you've run out of linear progression and you are absolutely committed to weights, recovery, and diet.
The limit is on Building the Monolith. If you cannot do 100 chins and 100 dips, you'll be unable to run that program.
how much do you squat
I don't do them these days (I don't think they do much) but back when I used to, I didn't breathe during the set.
You should ask your physical therapist, not on-line people you've never met.
For questions like this you gotta ask a physio or doctor not reddit
> Is there a right bar to use

No. Use whatever bar you want. But if you're gonna brag or talk about your dead, you need to specify that it's the trap bar
there is not a single correct or incorrect bar to use. Straight bar if you're training specifically for a powerlifting meet, otherwise you can use either or both. If a
program just says "deadlift," or someone asks you how much you deadlift with no qualifiers, they're almost always referring to a barbell deadlift.

[https://www.strongerbyscience.com/trap-bar-deadlifts/](https://www.strongerbyscience.com/trap-bar-deadlifts/)
There is a concept called the Squat-Hinge Continuum.


Some leg exercises are closer to a pure hip hinge (hip dominant), and others are closer to a pure squat (knee dominant).


Conventional deadlift is closer to pure hip hinge and hex bar deadlift is closer to pure squat.


In practice the more hip dominant a movement, the higher the lower back, glute and hamstring activation tends to be.


The reverse is also true that the more knee dominant a movement, the higher the quad activation tends to be.


So there's a choice where if you want to hit more lower back, glute and hamstring you might do better with more hip dominant movements. If you want to focus on
quads you might want a more knee dominant movement.
No not really as with that logic losing 100 pounds would mean you’d have to do 100 pound weighted pull-ups just do what you can handle
No it doesn't work linearly like that
Wdym what should we stop doing in the machines?
Floor press would replace chest press,
Deadlift would replace leg curl,
shoulder press replace shoulder press (obviously),
Lunge/squats replace leg press
Wall push-ups replace chest press / flys
Calf raises don’t really replace anything you were doing before.

I wouldn’t really bother with back extension or torso rotation machine.
https://www.t-nation.com/training/big-bench-program-for-strength-and-size/
smolov jr
Do uni lateral exercises
I don’t wear dailies, but I do often wear contacts in the shower. Haven’t had issues with them.
i keep mine on the in shower and just close my eyes the whole time.

if im reaching for shampoo etc i just make sure im not under the water and wipe my face beforehand to minimise water getting in

use eye drops if its dry
When I used to wear dailies, I never had a problem wearing them in the shower. What problems has it caused you by keeping them on?
My programming changes based on what my lifestyle can support.

Any time is a great time to use 5/3/1. It's very adaptable.
Sounds like you're at the end stretch of linear progression, as everyone else has said change when you feel ready and you can never go wrong with 531. The first
book is inexpensive and a great read imo
When the program stops serving me. It sounds like you do well considering a new training protocol.

531 is a good choice.
You can change every mesocycle if you want e.g. every 8-12 weeks.


There's not really any research showing that sticking to one single program for longer than that has benefits over switching.
Losing weight will give you a better idea of if you actually have any asymmetries.
If you’re completely new, Lift to help out asymmetries while eating clean and implementing some cardio to burn off some fat simultaneously.
How is your lateral pelvis tilt giving you these assymetries out of interest?
diagonally
The bar path off your chest should like a bit like a backwards J with the curve going toward your beard before straightening out
Like this: https://www.strongerbyscience.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/12873406\_10153480941573779\_1677012379\_o-2.jpg
Eat more of the food they cook.
Tuna fish is relatively cheap and good!
Eggs are cheap and easy to eat. Just add 4 boiled eggs to each dinner. Another is drinking a big 300-400 ml glass of whole milk instead of water with every meal
Throw in a protein shake
What did they say when you asked them about it?
Use your own money or ask if they’ll buy you protein powder. See if they’ll buy any snacks for you or buy your own. Eat more food during meals.
lunges / split-squats
I can garantee you my overall daily intake is really low, I understand this is a phase and it should go back to normal at some point, but right now, I'm eating a little
bit, but not much
The runs haven't been hard so far so good. Considering everything in my life, running makes me feel good, so in a sense, the harder the better, itll change my
thoughts even more.

I'd say that breakfast was about 1K calories yeah, but how is that not sustainable?
Timmies is a guilty pleasure I had that became an habbit. I can confidently say that the 30 pounds I gained during the past 2 years of covid were probably all due to
me going to timmies too often. Ultimately, it's not timmies fault though, I'm the one that needs to be held accountable for my choices.

Yeah, my attitude toward weight loss is stronger than ever. Breakups has been an eye opener, especially when she's a fit girl, she was fine with your physique, but
she tells you she's missing the days you were trying to get in shape and be a better self, for me, and for her.

I'll keep pushing, I do not plan to go super hard - my long term goal is really to simply cut portions, keep sugar to a sustainable minimum - always be roughly on a
500 daily calories deficit - not be depressed when I cheat and don't reach that 500 calories deficit and keep on running.

It's too early to tell, but my main goal would simply be running, cause I love it, and that daily 500 deficit. If I can get where I want to be only with that, I'll be very
happy.
Alright thanks. I'm bulking on 3500 right now. My maintenance is roughly 3000. So I'm planning to cut on 2500.
Thanks lol. I can't believe penis position is never mentioned in the instructional videos haha. I figured I had to be doing something wrong...
Maybe he's lucky and his problem is not that his arms are too short but...
I've just measured and my arm span at its max stretch is about 5'9" and I'm about that high, maybe 5'9.5" so pretty average I'd say?
Thanks for confirming lol
Have you noticed any gains?
When i touch it, it stings how do I now which one is pain or just soreness?
I don't know how to differentiate it but it's around my armpit/side chest. Everytime I touch it, it kinda stings.
I don't really have specific goals. Stay healthy, be well-rounded, see numbers get better.
Honestly no I'm not. I guess I should get more serious about my routine, but its not just like randomness. I got a few pdfs on upper body / lower body and I hit them
on the days 3-5 days a week.

But even then it doesn't seem like my bench should be going down
Excellent, many thanks! Step-ups are brilliant, that’s an automatic add for me. I’ll give RDL’s a shot as well.

Squats are a no-go right now, with the exception of goblets. Low weight deadlifts (135’ish) make me feel like a brand new man, mid-weight is painful. I have no idea
why that is about.

I wish people understood how these things work. My legs aren’t going to fall off I try something that aggravates my back. At most, I get some discomfort and so I
stop doing that movement.problem solved.

Thanks again!
Hm, would just think your muscles/joints need a semi long break every 6 months to a year or so?
Cool, thanks. That's what I was trying to understand - whether the limits on muscle gain are local or overall. Thanks for answering, unlike the other guy who just
wants to own the leg-day skippers or something.
Thank you for your help. Should I, let's say on a Monday, after completing the 531 and BBB, do, let's say, one Push exercise 25-50 reps, one Pull exercise 25-50
reps, and a single-leg/core movement 0-50 reps, or should I just pick one additional assistance exercise in addition to the 531 and BBB? If this is the case, is it
recommended if I should do the Push, Pull, single-leg/core movement assistance work after a certain lift, let's say you should do the pull exercises after Bench
Press, or doesn't it matter? Thanks again.
Appreciate the help!
Thanks will give it a go. It’s a strange one as I look like I’ve lost weight, which leads me to think I might be going through body recomposition
Its nice alternative, i do it at the end or as superset to straight bar !
Nice, for me its feel good no tension or pain in the elbow, im just lowering it little bit behind forehead but not too deep, how about you?
Thanks man!
Im doing it so far good with supersets with 5 kg dumbells to burn it out badly. Bit before triceps i do chest and shoulders so my elbows are warmed up
So will classic vans be good?
I was looking at PPL. I have made vast improvements to my diet and I'm already seeing a difference in body fat, so I figure some good exercise will take it to the
next level. Thanks.
Sweet good to know! It’s still not an issue if I didn’t train on top of it?
"Gather ye crab puffs while ye may"

This is a good life philosophy.
Thanks, was worried everybody was out there eating 3000 calories of broccoli and tuna or whatever & I was uniquely having a hard time with it
Say no more
Perfect thank you
That’s fair bro, I wanted an honest opinion, thanks
I’ve added 5 or 6kg to my 10 rep bench, 8kg to my squat and around 10-12kg on my bench and also 2,5kg to most of my lifts
"I do 5/3/1"
*does no conditioning or active recovery*
So if I eat say 80g of protein in one sitting, all 80g would be metabolized for muscle synthesis? (As opposed to 40g for muscle synthesis, 40g for glycogen)
No significant difference on muscle loss or no significant difference on the cut/fat trimming?
Sweet, will give that a crack. Cheers!
Why would my left be more sore than right? It will be sore until next day but my right will be sore for the ride home from gym then stop.
i see, well i actually do 5 day nsuns program and i eat around 200grams of protein everyday, hoping to minimize the muscle loss. i guess i can decrease it to 600 to
begin with.

i used be fine but i had drop weightlifting for a while and i messed my diet, hence weight gain. wouldnt want to lose hardearned muscle. thank you very much
I read that on an empty stomach jogging then eating a banana right before your resistance training is effective. Is it true? If not then I’ll stick to what you said.
I got what you’re saying. I wonder if its a normal weight for my height?
thanks!
I am planning of having 2 oatmeal shakes a day, trainer said I shouldn't eat carbs in the evening unless I train late, so sometimes 3 oatmeal shakes, the question
mainly is if it is a good idea to let it be the only source of carbs instead of using potatoes, etc. Because I just keep crashing after a few weeks because I can't stand
the boring potatoes or rice anymore, hence why I just wanna shug the oatmeal shakes and get it in that way
How do i find it?
my max is 80kg and i am increasing by 5kg each week.
i am doing 0 accessories exercises.
today (last sunday) i only managed 2 sets at 77.5 before i had to lower to 75 to complete all sets.
"Muscle Milk" is a brand name--I don't know that it is actual milk.
> Jon Andersen's Deep Water program

Just looked this up for beginners, this has TEN SETS of TEN REPS for squats and deadlift???
Like a one arm woodchoppers?
The side stuff always end up being an afterthought with adding all the accessories, so just wanted to know if there was a faster way to do it, with one exercise
instead of 2 more, on top of an already time consuming list of accessories.

I also don't see myself progressing with much weight in these areas, so thought I'd figure a way to get it done fast.
I can't feel anything if I only do 1 set of 60 seconds. I'd ignore the bro science and listen to my body
Yeah I’m on GZCLP, so I’ve chosen T3 accessory lifts that I’ve identified as areas I want to get stronger, but since I’m not necessarily building much muscle on a
deficit it made me wonder if my T3s are actually helping
+1

If it's performance enhancing more than creatine and caffeine and legal, then it probably dont do what it claims. Otherwise everyone would be using it like a normal
supp.
Really appreciate the response! Any way on how to test the mobility?
Pause between reps. Thought that's what it's called.
I posted a form check earlier on another account and people said it was fine, just to work on my bracing a bit more.

I don’t think 150lb is heavy, but I usually do aroind that for 5-7 reps. It doesn’t effect my squat itself because the pain is only on the next day. Have not seen a doctor
about it. Not wearing knee sleeves but thinking I should
Oh, nope def can't do that.
But it's nice because now I'll be looking forward to reach that level and try it out.
Thank you.
175 max 3 reps at 145 bw. I know it’s not much, but my lower back used to be shit. I wish I could use a belt, but I don’t like how it feels and I can’t squat as much
with one
We figured some of the new dumbbell/body weight exercises would replace the machine workouts, that way we are not over doing it.
I guess back extensions would be covered by deadlifts?
depends, do not run this program unless you’re intermediate to advanced stage
>looked it up, didnt know what that was... I have no equipment just doing body weight exercises. doing 21 mins of the "scientific 7 min workout" 3 or 4 time's a
week.
>
>I cant do much one legged yet.. my legs were atrophied pretty much when I started. only exercise on there i think i can do is lunges.. but those are still pretty
rough "rough as in not very good and very sloppy"
>
>but thank you I am going to try for sure. any specific stretches I should be concentrating on? maybe idk
Yeah, I think that's what I'll do. GZCLP served me incredibly well (blew past all my old max lifts a few months ago!), but it seems to be stalling for me now.

Time to dust of the ol' 531 Forever book
Thank, I know I do haha its a lot bigger on my right
Thanks, I've been lifting for 8 months would you count this as new? Thanks
My physio told me because one side is hiked up and one shoulder is depressed any bilateral movements i did hit my right side harder
How are you guaranteeing this?
You chopped out a significant portion of your diet and replaced it with a piece of toast. Either you were gaining weight before and now, yes, not eating all that junk
is healthier, or you were not gaining weight and now you are getting 1000 calories less a day than you were previously which equates to losing 2 pounds a week.
What I’m saying is, you can’t just cut 1000 calories a day and assume everything is fine when you didn’t have a plan. Some people binge when they are depressed
and some people starve themselves. Cutting 1000 calories can be fine if you know why you are doing it and have a plan with your diet but just doing it because
you’re too sad to eat is the literal definition of an eating disorder and should be treated as such.
Sounds good.
Wear snug underwear that keeps everything in place
Yes. I use moderate weight and do at least 15 reps, making sure to get a full stretch at the bottom and full contraction at the top. I used to do it with an ez bar
because it was friendlier to my wrists, but I eventually worked my way up to using a straight bar because it gives a better contraction.
Pain will usually manifest as a sharp stabbing pain. Soreness is a dull achy feeling. Either can be tender to touch. If in doubt, rest, but if it is just soreness and you
can do some light work, it’ll help it feel better and prevent it from coming back.
Then so long as you're eating well you'll see benefits. I wouldnt change anything unless the numbers stop progressing.
Just take a lighter deload week
>Do you ever take a break from walking? Don't you think your legs/feet would need a break?

Same idea. Answer is the same.

**Nope**.
No, and if you get to the point where you _need_ a semi-long break, you weren’t managing fatigue properly to begin with
You do 25-50 reps of push assistance, 25-50 reps of pull assistance, *and* 0-50 reps of single-leg/core assistance every session. For example, a session of OHP
could look like:

- OHP 65/75/85
- OHP 5x10
- 25-50 reps of Dips
- 25-50 reps of Chin-ups
- 0-50 reps of Lunges
Nothing happens that quick. Any changes noticed in 2 weeks are either mental or temporary.
Yep, should be fine.
>It’s still not an issue if I didn’t train on top of it?

It's slightly more of an issue, but still not worth obsessing over.
I’m also assuming you’re relatively small/lean and trying to bulk up. If you’re overweight don’t follow this advice lol
Great work man, what ever you doing keep it up
Are you following a program?
Pretty much, yes.
No, not all of the protein you eat is used for muscle protein synthesis, and this unavoidable no matter what range your intake falls in.

But half the protein you eat in a sitting turning into glycogen? Where did you even come up with that?
Are you right handed? Generally your dominant side works more efficiently than the non dominant (hence the pain in your left).
Whatever is lost is easily replaced.
Not sure what you mean by effective.

Personally I would rather do the resistance training first, as I care more.about progressing my resistance training than my jogging.

Personally I wouldn't want to do jogging on an empty stomach and then only having a banana. I perform better when I have more fuel.
There is nothing particularly effective about eating a banana.
Normal for a skinny tall dude, sure. For comparison though, I’m 6’1” and I’d be severely malnourished anywhere near that weight at this point.

Digging deeper though, it sounds like you have some issues with your body and it’s relationship with food/weight. You should get that sorted, it’s important.
I imagine that is information you can find on Google
I see no reason to listen to your trainer in this. What would happen if you ate carbs in the evening? I don't doubt they know something about your training I don't, but
it sounds like nonsense to me.

Try groats, couscous, quinoa. There are other starches than potato and rice. You can make them less boring, certainly rice can be made any number of ways.
It’s in the sidebar of this subreddit
Then you just added too much weight this week. Add weight based on how hard the last few sets of the 10x3 day was. Were you able to hit like 2-3 more reps on
the last sets or was it hard? If it's hard, add 2.5kg, easy add 5
Yes. With timed rests.
Yes but going from bottom to top instead
Why not drop these potential exercises completely? What purpose should they fulfill in your program?
well, dont do planks then. its obviously to easy for you and you will get a greater benefit from doing other core exercises
If I could do 1 set of planks for 60 minutes I would go on to the next progression until I couldn't.
Say, for example, you add 15lbs to your bicep curl during your cut. Sure, you might not be gaining much muscle, but you will be able to work with heavier loads
when you start bulking, which will help.

Short answer: yes, still do accessories.
Everything helps. Especially in combined with sufficient calories.
There are lots of stretches for hips and legs, try to do single leg variations of them. If one side feels tighter or harder to get into position, it probably is. It could be
glutes, hamstrings, hip flexors, hip abductors, probably a combination of them.
Try adding some extra warm-up sets using lighter weight. And if you sit too much during the day, stand/walk more often.
How many can you manage? You could always get them done over the course of the day.
learn how to brace properly and use a belt and get used to it or just keep not using a belt then
So what’s the question sorry?
Your routine is pretty light. You’re not in danger of overdoing anything tbh. The human body is very resilient. It actually takes a lot to overtrain. How much time
you’re willing / able to spend in the gym is much more important of a factor vs overtraining.

Since you’re only able to go 3 days a week, I would look into a full body workout program or a 3 day push pull legs program.
SVR II is my favorite default program out of that book. Good mix of things that work.
If you’re still able to progress on your lifts while cutting then I’d say you’re new enough where you can do both at the same time. It gets harder once you’re a few
years into lifting to add strength/muscle at maintenance, at that point I’d advise dedicated months of eating in surplus then cutting again.
Well, I'm semi-counting calories right now. I know what I eat during the day, since its not much. I only drink water, so the drinks part is easy.

Now as far as food, I can just count the calories and add them up, right now I have a lot more than 500 calories deficit.
Sure, first, I gained weight in the last year, and I only started eating this during the last year. It started a couple days a week to then almost 7 days a week. It cost me
a lot of money and I had the intentions of stopping myself on that front regardless. The breakup just made it that much easier of a decision.

&#x200B;

That being said, This is a phase, I know my appetite will comeback, and that I'll be able to eat again, hopefully to a point where I can still hit 500 calories deficit a
day but not as harsh as right now.

&#x200B;

I'm fully aware I'm shedding weight fast right now, not the healthiest of things, but I'll take that as a starting point. I'll just try to regulate my eating habits once I'm
mentally and emotionally better. This is a side effect of current life event, but I had decided that I wanted to take care of myself, to shed all this extra weight, to be
the best version of myself. I'll work toward that and I wont give up.

&#x200B;

Thanks for your info!
Yeah I think I need to upgrade my workout underwear.
This is very helpful, thank you!
Alright thanks man
Yes exactly
Thanks, I will
Yeah the Arnold Schwarzenegger splits
Yes I'm right handed.
I was working out a few years ago and never had this issue. Was even doing the exact same excerisizes. I stopped for a few years and this is happening after
getting back in.
Well, My goal is maintaining muscle and reducing fat.
Lol. It said that it’s enough fuel for the resistance training since the jogging was done in an empty stomach.
true. thanks a lot!
well theres this lifestrong site that says as low as 148 is considered normal
Trust me I tried them. He said eating carbs if I don't train after is not needed because it's useless energy I add to my body. But I still have no answer to my question,
is it possible to just have 2-3 oatmeal shakes a day for my carbs?
i tried adding 5kg but that was obviously to hard so i lowered by 2.5 essentially making it a 2.5kg increase
Makes sense. thanks!
Thanks so much! Been really worried
I haven't tried to do them for almost 2 months, but it was zero lol
Sorry. I guess my post is a bit convoluted. I listed our current workout with machines. Then I listed new dumbbell and body weight exercises that we want to
incorporate based off what we can actually do. The question is: if we add the latter, then what should we remove from the machine workouts.
Yeah. My GF and I also include a 15-30min of cardio each time we go, including stair master. If we do full body workout, will it be a problem going back to back on
sunday and monday? If it is I guess we can do push pull leg. Does push and pull include lower body?
Then you may wish to introduce a little more food so your deficit is around a more manageable 500 below maintenance.

Larger deficits are unsustainable, lead to unplanned binging and further unnecessary restriction which may lead to disordered eating patterns.
Maybe it’s worth bringing up with an Exercise Physiologists. If it’s new, despite the movements being routine for you, it could be something underlying. Or see your
GP and ask if it’s related to nerve pain. Find the cause and treat it
Okay. When I am trying to lose weight I time a meal before training, as I perform better after eating.
There's no particular fuel need for resistance training. It can be done in a fasted state. What is important is consistent nutrition in general.
I do not understand what you want me to do with that information
Yes it is possible. Would it be the best option I personally dont think so
Why would carbs be useless energy but not fat? I don't think carbs work this way.

Did you try them plain or an actual recipe? If I'm going on stereotype you are just cooking these things which is why they bore you. Have you tried couscous with
raisins and apricots? Have you triets groats with a vinegrette? Have you tried tried spanish rice?

I don't think oatmeal shakes is a good solution, and I think you should learn to cook these foods to make them palatable for you.

No worries!
Ah, you'll need to build up for sure. BBB Beefcake itself requires 50 dips. 5/3/1 for Beginners would provide a good opportunity to work on that.
Well replace shoulder press with shoulder press with dumbbells but the thing is your whole routine doesn’t have to be dumbbells or free weight. Machines are just
as good for muscle building as dumbbells.

Your lunge/squat can just be added to the leg routine I think that’d be fine same as the rest. As you’re doing 3 days you would most likely want to do
PUSH/PULL/FULL BODY imo meaning one of your days would be high volume
Yeah, first couple days were rough, then I had apetite and was probably hovering around 500 deficit and now its back to rough-ish again. It comes and goes, and
I'm 100% going to blame this on the breakup. I know everything will come back in due time and I'll be just fine. I was worrying more about the health aspect of it. If
y'all are telling me it's not the worst for now, I wont feel to bad for myself and I'll just let the hard times pass.
I got nerve test done last year. They were all good.
Got it. Thanks for the help!
Alright thanks for the help!
I want to figure out what is considered a normal weight for a 6’1
Thank you, maybe that will be the next step after I'm done with my program.
Thanks. When you say push/pull/full body, do you mean like sunday would be push, monday would be pull, and Wednesday would be both combined?
I would continue to use Google
BMI calculators are flawed since it doesn’t take into account for muscle. I’m around 6 3 and that’d be incredibly low for me as long as your healthy and clearly not
overweight or underweight I think you’d be ok
Most people are untrained so that's not really a flaw. Sounds like the poster is untrained so BMI is fine in this context.
Hi! Welcome to your weekly thread where you can share your gym tales!
I was starting to get stomach pain I thought from deadlifting, like exercise induced GERD, because my belly was in the way. I went to gastro to get treatment for
gerd and they put me on acid reducers.

So I started doing wide stance deadlifts to put less pressure on my belly but then I got real sharp hip pains. It got so bad I took myself to the ER. I had torn the
labrum in my hip sockets and my abdomen turned out to be cancer.

Bad deadlift form saved my life.
The gym has a stick in the stretch area that people use for shoulder dislocates. This is no skinny little broomstick, but rather a stout hickory cudgel about 1 1/2"
diameter and six feet long. Little John probably whacked the Sherriff of Nottingham upside the head with a stick like this.

The stick was propped up against a shelf. On the floor next to the shelf was a guy doing pushups. A girl dropped a medicine ball on the shelf as she walked by on
the back side, bumping the stick which then slowly tipped over in a perfect arc to hit push up guy square on top of the head. You could hear the crack as it
connected across the gym.

Push up guy yelped, and jumped up looking for a fight. By then nobody was anywhere near him, so eventually he kicked the stick away and walked off. The girl
never had a clue what she had done.
Just started at a new gym in this new city I moved to. Prior to this, I have only ever worked out in a friend's garage or at a small 24 hr gym at 3 am where there
would only ever be one other person leaving as i arrived. This gym is a *real* gym. I was talking to the front desk dude, a couple of the powerlifters there were
competing nationally or something? I dont know the details. I wanted to bench, but the people using the other benches were so strong and intimidating. Big
bodybuilders using the machines. Keep in mind I'm 5'9 150. I just did accessory work, not getting to bench that day. Highlight of my day was some random big
bodybuilder dude giving me a head nod and fist bump. Made me more comfortable but I still am not mentally prepared for this gym. I am paying for a one year
contract which is motivating me to take advantage of my gym time.
Not really a story, but I was just thinking that you can say what you want about brand chain gyms, but it's great being able to go to any local branch when you're in
another town for a week!
Decided to add some weighted pushups to my routine - my toddler wanted to sit on my back. I asked him how many pushups I should do. "All of them, daddy." My
apologies to anyone who was planning to do pushups - I ended up doing all of them.
Oooo this was an exciting week. Tore my bicep off in a strongman competition at the start of the summer. Took a break from weights and just did a lot of activity
post surgery. Shop work. Canoeing hiking. Walking much too far eating mushrooms on the ocean. Was a dandy summer.

Got back into lifting and bam! [Pulled my first 600 post surgery! Arm felt great. Pull felt easy. Can't believe how fast it's coming back] (http://imgur.com/a/E7pQYw0)

So we'll really get back into it going into winter.
So I meet this guy kind of regularly at my gym. We're not close or anything, but when we see each other we talk a bit about our workouts, successes, gym goals, life
stuff and so on.

Anyway, last time he announced that he'd be moving to a new city next month and I'm kinda bummed out, because this is the only dude I know personally at my
gym. He's a bit of a gymbro and works out arms more than legs, but he always noticed when I'd gotten stronger or bigger :(
Went to the gym, noticed a few looks. Felt weird at first, until I realized I must have sat in sth prior and not noticed as a had a huge brown stain on my shorts.

It was literal sh*t. Had to leave and couldn't go back for a few days out of shame
felt pretty proud of myself (petite female) when a regular jacked gymbro said to me “you’re making me look bad” after my set of lateral raises. he was also doing
them (using heavier weights) but i was throwing in a pause at the top. so he went heavier on his last set. i felt like a welcomed member of the gymbros.
My mate at my local gym gaves himself a concussion whilst setting up his deadlift just infront of an empty adjustable squat rack. He didn't notice that the barbell
squat rack had been moved significantly inwards. Stood up, and cracked the back of his head on the machine. He is ok now, but wow that looked painful.
Leg day yesterday. Did some squats and deadlifts, started eyeing the leg press machine because that’s where I was headed next. Noticed there was a guy using it
just to stretch for like 10 minutes straight. I go up and ask if he’s actually using it (thinking maybe he just wanted somewhere to stretch given that the gym was
super busy and he had been just stretching for quite a while).

He says yeah, he’s gonna get some sets in. I say cool, I’ll wait, no biggie. Then he says he’ll be like **45 minutes**. Kind of inconsiderate given how busy the gym
is, but not too big of a deal because he offers me to work in with him. I think to myself, still, taking a machine for 45 minutes is still pretty excessive even if you let
people work in. But oh well. Dude was pretty huge, so clearly what he’s doing works for him.

I was really willing to give him some grace until later on when I saw that he was jumping across the gym, super setting lunges, leg extensions, etc., all while still
having his gym bag propped up on the leg press.

Like, dude, hogging the machine for 45 minutes is already pretty annoying, but add onto that how annoying it is to take up 3 - 4 different machines all across the
gym during a busy time… legitimately the most irritating encounter I’ve had so far at the gym.
Was working out when I needed to use one of the machines that this one guy was lingering around for half an hour (he was using it but haven't seen him used it in
a while). I went to ask if he was done but he had his headphones on so he couldn't hear me. So then I tried to wave my hands in front of the mirror to get his
attention but no response. So finally I slightly tapped his shoulder and the first thing this man did was turn around and said "don't you fucking touch me". I was
shocked as I didn't expect that reaction but since I had his attention I just went ahead and asked if he was done with the machine. He didn't respond and he just put
his headphones back on and went back to look at himself.


So I wiped down the machine, started adding weights to it and used it. This man walked and stood in front of me and tried talking to me but I didn't bother taking out
my headphones and ignored him. He then proceeded to go to the front desk and claimed I swooped in as he was taking a break between sets.
So I’m an American who’s been living and teaching English in China for just over 3 years now. My Chinese speaking skills are pretty bad mostly due to my own poor
effort and consistency in practicing. Recently I had to go and find a new apartment to move into and our agent showing us places told me he joined my gym.
Tonight we meet up and exercise together. We’re both in our 30s and not in great shape but we push one another. To take it further, what could be some
good/simple words or sentences you can think of that we can practice one another’s languages while doing whatever exercises?
waking up with hunger pangs at 6 after full meals at dinner must mean im doing something right
Pooped my pants after finishing a 10k this morning. Thank God I had an extra pair in my truck and the walk was not that long.

Only time I ever violated my "BM before running" rule.

I will never do that again
I've gotten new PRs the entire week thanks to 531. That's all.
Today a girl in my gym was doing pull-ups with a resistance band attached to her feet for support ( I think most people know where this is going), the resistance
band slipped from her feet went right in between legs, and it sounded like someone slapped a thick peace of meat. Everyone in the gym felt the pain including men,
but she laughed it off and walked it off like a champ. Bravo!!
I finally went to the gym for the first time after more than a year of just home workouts 'cause of my social anxiety. Good thing a new friend pushed me to finally go.
So I went, all nervous and full of anxiety, but to my surprise it really is exactly as you guys said.

Nobody gives a f*ck. Nobody stares, nobody judges my starting squat weight (which almost made me faint after the last set tbh 'cause it was my first time and I
probably did too much lol), nobody tried to pick a fight for no reason (I'm an overthinker lol). It was great in every way and I can't wait to put my training to the next
level in terms of efficiency. I'm grateful for this community with all the advice and encouragement you guys give ❤️
There was this guy on Monday walking around the gym doing nothing. (I was there for 2 hrs, I didn't see him touch any weights or anything.) He just kept walking up
to people lecturing them on how they should do their exercises.

He actually gave me a good tip on my OHP, but the next time he came around he started critiquing something in my routine I go off of this sub's Wiki...

...and then he tried to lecture me about something I'm 99% sure I know much better than him. So yeah. Idk... He was pretty annoying, but my OHP is better now,
so...
I was doing 5x5 weighted pull ups with 35lbs. One of the bigger guys in the gym told me I’m doing a good job and to keep it up along with some other small talk.
Feels good.
I've been getting approached for lifting advice at the gym lately. The other day a guy asked me how he could avoid shoulder pain when squatting. Then another one
asked me to show him the front rack position because he wants to start front squatting. Another one asked me how to progress to a back lever.

Does this mean i've made it?
I saw a guy almost kill himself on the bench. dropped super fast and then rolled back on his neck, we all rushed over to pull it up off him. ego lifting aint no joke.
highest my heart rate has been at the gym in months lmao. he was a-ok but left right after
Yesterday I was Overhead Pressing heavy (74lbs is heavy for me lol) then half way through at that sticking point I got stuck and had to push harder. I then heard
and felt my *shoulder blade* pop louder than anything I've ever felt pop. I didn't even know that was possible and lowered the weight lol
had my earbuds off in the gym today and heard some dude walk up to a girl and start hitting on her, after 10 seconds of awkward convo she goes "can you go away
please" and he just walked away with his head down. I've never laughed and cringed so hard in my whole life lol what a creeper
I took the plunge this week and signed up for a strongman/powerlifting gym. No contract or joining fees, so nothing to lose by giving it a go. It's a small hole-in-the-
wall place without much of a crowd at all. There's no space issue doing conditioning because there's a whole damn empty parking lot outside to do it in! It's just a bit
cramped inside, equipment is just scattered everywhere, but I deliberately went at 4pm on Tuesday to see how bad it would be, but there was mostly just the one
giant the whole time I was there.

It's also intimidating as fuck. Like the owner and aforementioned hulk I met on the first day were cool dudes but man, this guy is pressing a log, which is super cool
but I can hardly push press 60kg yet.

I do love the benches though; proper competition stuff that doesn't have me balancing my back on it and I don't hit the hooks at all as it's just a gap with a roller in it.
The knurling is fucking *awesome*; wrecks my hands but those bars stay locked in! For a few extra bucks the equipment is nice (like why is it so rare to see
specialty bars in most gyms; they're awesome!)...except they cheaped out on the water bill and don't have showers, so home has to be the first stop once I've got a
sweat on. I have noticed though there are some limitations because of my strength, like not being able to carry most of the sandbags and there's only 1 keg which
is heavy AF. The tires also don't seem big enough to flip with good technique...

After a few days though, the 32km commute sucks. It's 25 minutes away and gobbles up petrol, so I'm not sure I will continue going.
hit 70 for 5 on bench this wednesday and just two weeks ago my 1rm was 70 :)
So I took and exam and almost failed. It wasn’t a great grade but I passed but I still felt like shit and wanted to go out drinking but I hit the gym instead and I’m happy
with my decision. I hit new PR and I will pass the next exam with an A.
The LA fitness I recently started going to has so much extensive equipment, which is great

but there's only 3 squat racks in the whole gym, not nearly enough for the people that go there. No dedicated space for deadlifts, and they have a machine for
literally every body part EXCEPT hamstring curls. WTH?
I was in the sauna and some dude walked in and emptied half a water bottle into the coals which in turn gave the place a terrible smell and filled it with smoke, fuck
that guy
I feel like I've finally figured out the strict overhead press and starting to throw up some decent numbers, hit a 65 kg 1rm this week. Next big goal is a bodyweight
(85 kg) ohp.
There’s a retired guy that comes into the gym every Tuesday and Thursday morning (I just graduated college) and he usually gives me life advice between sets or
shoots the shit. Told me last Thursday he’s getting a surgery (nothing too serious) and probably not gonna be in the gym for two/three months. Gonna miss him the
dude
It’s mildly annoying how effective bracing is. I was skeptical when I was learning, but I literally can’t go back now. Going to need to practice it a lot more though, so I
can do more reps between re-bracing
5'8" 165lbs, finally hit a 405lb deadlift after failing 3 other times in the past year. Couldn't have been happier to finally break that threshold
Less of a story, more of a rant I guess, but I'll probably forget this by the time the rant thread comes around.

There is this guy in my gym who I have only ever once (since April) seen doing anything that isn't upper body or ab work and I am going to lose my fucking rag with
him.

He uses equipment for anything other than its main purpose.

- Squat racks - he will go to a rack and use it for the pull up handles at the top. There are at least 5 other places he could do pull ups. But he will use the squat rack.
There are only 3 racks and he is doing this at a relatively busy time of the day. Sometimes people will take the bars out of the rack to do deadlifts. Yesterday he
looked at and then walked straight past an empty rack that had no bar in it to use an empty rack that did have a bar. If he *particularly* likes that rack, then okay, but
he could just take the bar from the rack he really wants to use and put it in the other rack. But nah, that's too difficult.

- Bench press racks - he will sit on the end of the bench and do sets of v crunches for like 10+ minutes. There are lots of benches and other places he could do
this. They are all perfectly stable (I've checked! And I definitely weigh more than him), so it is not like this is the only place capable of staying stable while he does
this. And I don't see why it needs to be on the end of a bench or whatever anyway, since I've always been able to do them just fine on the floor? It seems irrelevant
what your arse is sitting on when you're elevating your feet anyway?

I'm trying to hype myself up to going up to him and being like "can I use that rack for what it's supposed to be used for?" but recently his stupid use of the racks
hasn't lined up with when I need to use one of them.
Started a new gym a few weeks ago after a long hiatus, starting to pick up on the habits, routines and things that happen with some of the other patrons now and as
such have received their nicknames in my head.

Mirror guy: between sets will leave whatever he’s doing, walk up to inches away from the mirror, and will spend his whole rest period staring himself in the eyes.
Works hard though so good on him.

Elastigirl: self explanatory. Will do nothing but some solid stretching for two hours. Idk what she does outside that window but it works.

Whiplash: when she walks in every neck in the gym snaps trying to get a look. Crop top that covers less than her sports bra and shorts that would make a volleyball
team look Amish. But she gets after it, doing workouts that make the former athlete in me cry. I won’t be caught alive doing squats, to Bulgarian split squats, to leg
press consecutively with no rest and no end in sight.

Calf man: a bit of a t-Rex action going on here but his calves make up for it. I guess doing the stair stepper for 45 minutes on tip toe will do that.

Social club: nice group. They just take up a lot of space around the machines catching up on each other’s day when it’s not their turn.
I honestly don't enjoy going to the gym and the pandemic didn't improve that at all...I consider it a supplemental training to become stronger and better in other
disciplines *but* today is one of those really good days, where I'm enjoying myself a lot here. New personal best records for BP and triceps extensions without
breaking down in the last set or anything, I felt like I could push those even further if I hadn't gone through my entire workout already. I don't even know what made
it so good today, my guess is that everything came together as in decent form right now, right time of the day, nice weather making me feel better and a great state
of hunger, not too full, not too hungry. Most of you probably have been where I was today a lot of times, maybe even frequently but holy cow I am finishing my best
gym session on a day where I didn't even want to go in the first place and the only reason why I went was that no one had time to go play volleyball in the sand. No
regrets, that session was awesome
Hey if you're going to do unweighted standing pelvic thrusts, maybe grunting really loud with every rep like you're moving the weight of a car with yer dick isn't the
best tack... in a pin-drop silent eight room. I know you have earbuds in. But everyone else in the room is uncomfortable. I know I'M certainly traumatized.
Hit a PR on deadlift and ended up straining my lower back. Did I strain my lower back DURING the deadlift? Nope. I strained it forgetting to engage my legs when
re-racking the EMPTY bar. Sick. Ice please?
Went to the gym pretty early this morning. Not a lot of people there. After warming up/stretching, I went to the restroom to pee. I walked in and saw one of the
employees clipping his toenails in the locker room with one shoe still on. We made eye contact and maintained it for about 5 seconds before I broke it off and went
about my business. As I was working out, he was walking around cleaning, taking out trash, etc. we made awkward eye contact fairly frequently.
Pro: I've finally started going back to my gym having moved past some injuries I've been plagued with for nearly two years.
Con: my gym is a squat rack and pull up bar in my garden and it started raining now summer is over.
The personal trainers at my gym are all incompetent. They coach people to do bizarre exercises with light weights that’s probably less effective than simply riding a
bike. They use up multiple pieces of equipment for the wrong purpose.

For example, yesterday was squat day for me. I have shoulder & bicep mobility issues, so I need the safety squat bar. My gym has exactly one safety squat bar.
The personal trainer was using it to have a guy deadlift it (with no added weight either, so the guy was doing sets of 10 65 lb deadlifts). So I ended up using a
standard bar and loaded up a bunch of micro plates so I could grip the thing *extra* wide.
After 1-2 years of off and on (mainly off though), I'm finally getting a feeling that I will stick with my current gym routine. Also, just benched 10 on each side which
isn't a lot but compared to when I started when I couldn't unrack the bar, I like this feeling. I just realized I'd rather stay weak for a few months and have everyone
stare at me in the gym if they want than not go to a gym and stay weak forever and I am really liking the decision.
My gym story is that I’m going to start going to the gym this Monday. I just got an order of some supplements and some equipment and am going to start making
time after work to go. That’s all.
So I am trying the treadmill at my new gym for the first time. I press quick start and see the speed at 1.5. So I keep pressing the speed up button while starting my
playlist.

Weirdly I notice that the treadmill is slowing down. I look up from my phone and see the speed is going down. To my horror, it goes from 0.1 to 0.0 and then
overflows to 21.0. I frantically press the speed down button thinking it's been reversed but the button doesn't work. I frantically ran the fastest I have ever run while
bringing down the speed from 21.0 to 6.0.
Locked my keys in my car at the gym car park. Made a scene. Keys were in my gym bag and I put it in the boot. My car beeped to let me know “hey! Your keys are
in the boot” and opened it back up. My caffeine enraged self ignored this and slammed the boot lid closed consistently until it didn’t open anymore. What a mistake I
made.

It was a long walk home to get the spare key. Then the gym was closed, with my car locked inside a fenced gate. Eventually texted the owner and they came,
opened up. The spare key battery is dead. Thank the lord I could at least open my boot at this point.

Today was my deadlift focused leg day, and feeling good I decided to go for a new 1RM. Was warming up, hit 135x5, 225x3, 275x2, 315x1 and it all went super
smooth. Today is definitely the day. Threw on 365, and it went up at an RPE of about 8-8.5. I’ve never gone higher, and feeling great I decided to go for 405, my
goal ever since I started deadlifting. Setting up and hyping myself up, I see the guy next to me staring out of the corner of my eyes. I got some pretty bad stage
fright but said fuck it, I’m going for it. Pulled and it wouldn’t budge for the longest 5 seconds of my life, and then it slowly started going up! I was so excited, I’m
finally hitting 4 plates! Wrong - got about halfway there but couldn’t lock it out and ended up dropping the weight :(
Did 5 muscle-ups with the lightest band. Will try unassisted on Monday.
I work out at a 24 hour gym pretty early in the morning due to insomnia. There are a few regulars there, we don’t talk much and pretty much do our own thing. One
of the members came up to me today and said “just wanted to let you know what you are doing is working…you’ve really trimmed up.” Made my day!
Helped an older lady adjust the height on the pec fly machine. Heard her talking to a personal trainer about how I'm a very nice young man.

Made my whole week.
I recruited another buddy to the gym and I’m stoked to see my friends working on their health
Went to the gym today and it must’ve been bro hour or something, there were probably about 10 dudes there and only one female-me-the whole time. Come on
girls where u at!
Saturdays are my struggle days.
Day 35 of lockdown or whatever it is now. Still no access to gym. End me, please.
Finally back in the gym. I stopped when covid hit. Feeling good and looking forward to getting back into shape.
Missed one work out this week due to emotional issues. Really needed a great coffee insteas of working out. No biggie, it's all about the long term. [Here is my plan
btw, feel free to critique! ](https://i.imgur.com/uKF1JoH.jpg)
I'm the kiss of death for any PT at my gym. If they take me on as a client, they'll be gone within six months.

I've been at this gym for five years, and have got through six PTs in that time. They either give it up entirely, move to another gym, or set up their own studio.

It's enough to give me a complex!
I'm at a kind of bodybuilder/ bro/ near a university type gym resting between sets, they play a variety of music, in that moment a girly techno song was playing. The
bald, bearded, jacked manager walks by and i sarcastically tell him "this my jam for PRs!! " Without missing a beat, he replied "i lost my virginity to this song!"
Wut!?!?
I see your “bicep curls in the squat rack guy” and raise you to “Bulgarian split squats on the bench press bench when there are others open guy” and also “two
people deadlifting on the same platform guys”
Just a reminder to all my fellow gym members. Gotta respect anyone who shows up to the gym. Beginner or pro, we’re all there to improve ourselves so always
show love and be kind❤️
Today, I got to spot a stranger on bench for the first time since the pandemic started. Felt good being able to help out another king, and he crushed the set. Be
excellent to each other.
[deleted]
I think I've just met a karen at the gym and not sure what I could've done.

Okay we all know the gym can be really crowded sometimes, so you find 2-3 people working on the same machine in rotation changing their corresponding weight
or if a person is about to be done with his sets, he tells to wait for a minute or two and then knock yourself out.

Anyways it was leg day, I had just finished with some squats, hack squats and deadlifts and wanted to have 2 sets of leg extensions and move on to the next
exercise. I saw a lady working on the machine and I just awkwardly stood next to her waiting for her to finish so that I can start my set. This is usually normal
behaviour especially at that machine. You just sit, set the weight and start working out.

She finished and she sat like a dead fish on the machine.i politely asked her if I could please use the machine.

"I still have 2 sets left," she said.

I smiled and said, "Well, me too".

Then she explained she's doing some sort of HIIT where she squats with those medicine balls like she's taking a dump and then does some leg extensions and that
they have to be right after each other.

I said, "Well, okay, when you're doing squats, I'll be doing leg extensions, and by the time I'll be done, you'll start your leg extensions set"

It was clear my words were falling on deaf ears and she started to get emotional and raising her voice in the gym. Everyone turned their necks and her personal
trainer started strutting towards me from the distance.

I just said, "Well, had you gotten off the machine and done your squats instead of debating, we could have both done a set, but okay go ahead, I'll wait" and went to
stretching.

5 minutes after, she's done. It seemed to me like some people have 0 knowledge of gym etiquettes.
I was getting bulk, but then I sprained my AC joint, so I had to rest for a month for the recovery.
I really hope I can go back to the gym asap. I envy you guys.
The other day I was doing leg presses and I prd! It was pretty easy so I upped it by 10 pounds for the next set and did it again! But this time I decided to take it to
failure so I could get a 10 rep max estimate. I was trying to stay within 10-12 reps and ended up doing 24. So apparently the weight i should have been working with
was double my last pr. I decided to try it for my last set and managed to finish within the rep range. I think I was just using a really suboptimal setting on the leg
press for my body before so I made sure I remembered where it was for next time lol
There’s a guy at my gym who’s either a douche or has a Napoleon complex, I say this because he’ll post up on a bench (leaves all his shit there) in the free weight
section, do one workout and then steal a different style bench from right under you to do a different workout. I’ve started watching him like an animal and it’s
honestly funny and irritating to see. He stole my bench once but I came back and started lifting right next to him anyways.
Went for one rep to many on bench ended up with 225 on my collar bone for a few seconds. I didn't have a spot because the last two guys I asked wouldn't stop
touching the damn bar on my second of 6 reps. Anyways ended up getting my self out by pushing it down my body to my hips and sitting up with it but tweaked my
elbow a bit ij the process so I haven't done upper body in about a week. Fun times I just wish people knew how to spot. If the bar is going up don't touch it.
What should I train today :(. Actually I'm confused. Trained everything by this day. Today is actually my rest day but meh... Fully recovered everything so feeling
like hitting the gym again.

PS: I have like a little bit of Upper shoulder DOMS.
[deleted]
Idk you know when the gym is basically the only thing you do in your life that you get any dopamine from but your lifts still suck and everything has stalled? Lmao.
Finally I have some pain in my back muscle for the first time.
two guys sitting in the leg press machine for at least half an hour, probably did two sets each in that time. literally just talking nonstop for half an hour. I have to
listen to them because i'm using the rack next to them. i'm just getting angrier and angrier. finally i'm done with the rack and move on to the other side of the gym to
do some machines. thank fucking god i thought. THEN THEY FUCKING COME USE THE MACHINE NEXT TO ME AND KEEPS TALKING NON STOP.

FUCKING STOP TALKING TO EACH OTHER NON STOP. GO TO A CAFE
I go to a 24 hour gym after working night shift at midnight. There's usually between 0 and 2 other people there. One night, there was a guy dressed in a full on,
homemade ninja outfit. He was hitting the heavy bag very softly while bending in all sorts of crazy positions. I tried to sneak my phone out of my gum bag and
secretly record him, but by the time I got it, he vanished without a sound. I never even heard the door close.
Went for today's session a few hours ago. High-bar squats and heavy comp bench. Squats go beautifully -- beat my last set AMRAP target by two reps. Got to see
some gym friends before they left.

Move on to bench, set up, warm up, gauging my overwarm. 134kg/295lbs flies -- this isn't unexpected. Feels especially good. Decide to attempt paused
143.2kg/315lb as my overwarm single. Would be a 4.5kg/10lb PR, but well within the projected max I should be able to do. Racks suck at the gym, so I set the
hooks a bit low and find a guy to spot me. Give specific instructions -- handoff, only grab the bar if I visibly fail the concentric. Unrack is great. Handoff is great.
Lower the bar, touch, bar stops moving for *a split-second, not even the intended duration of the short pause,* and suddenly he decides to hoist it as forcefully as
he can.

Proceed to actively ignore this man's existence for my prescribed doubles at 127.3kg/280lbs, hit an AMRAP of 6 vs. target of 4 for the last set -- another gym friend
showed up and was happy to spot me... in competent fashion.

It's not too goddamn hard to *not grab the bar*, is it? Apparently it is. Useless assclown.
Hit all four workouts this week after my back started feeling better. Did an ego move and went on a bike tour... A 58 km bike tour after I havent touched a bike in 5
months. There was pain, couldnt tell if there were tears through the sweat. I twinged something in my right knee, to the front left of the cap.

Upside, I have beer, wine, cider, and pizza to help the healing process.
First time I’ve seen someone do a tri-set
yooo this took a big turn, hope youre doing good bro
Jesus dude. I expected a constipation story. Good luck with healing!
it’s like that story of the horses and the wise kid man who says “maybe” to everything
Oh my. I have symptoms of GERD and have been lazy about going to get it checked out. Definitely going now
Amusing
Sort've related: my gym does have a skinny little broomstick for dislocates near the stretching area, but it is there probably 25% of the time. Then I'll see it in
random parts of the gym while working out. So annoying
I think you accidentally posted your comment mid-sentence
You know how people stand up the short straight bars on their sides? I saw someone bump one and it fell right on a guy's foot. It demolished his foot.
Powerlifters understand everyone is at different points in their strength journey. We gas up the lifter who hit a 135 bench PR the same way we do for 405 bench. I
think there are a few guys, mostly older, who have a more hardcore mentality and only care about people with elite numbers but for the most part people are more
than happy to let you work in no matter the strength difference. And know you deserve to use the equipment you pay for irrespective of how much you lift.

Plus powerlifters love giving tips and talking technique when asked.
I know it takes some nerve to do it but just ask to work in. If I'm using equipment and all the others are taken too, I basically expect someone else to need it. It
doesn't bother me at all.

Or ask how many sets they have left. That's like universal code for getting in line to be next.
Don't be intimidated just because there are men in the gym and those men are strong. Odds are, the stronger they are the nicer they are. And even if they aren't,
you have just as much right to be there as a woman as they do as men. Even if you are extremely weak in comparison, that's to be expected. You are only 150lbs
and women generally just aren't going to be in the same universe as men when it comes to strength.
I wouldn't worry about them. I'm 6 months in and have asked about 4 people for advice at my gym regarding an exercise they were just doing. Every single one of
them were super friendly and helpful, especially the guy that has possibly the biggest pecs I've seen at my gym.
I wish this worked with garage gyms. Like there would be a voluntary network of people who also have garage gyms and if you're in the area you can drop in for a
workout with some random meathead.
One of the perks. Also tends to be better equipped (in my country at least) compared to most gyms and is way cheaper in general as well. I'm paying like 20 per
month, cheapest non-chain gym is 45 per month and much smaller with less equipment
I've been going to PF for three years and I absolutely love it. Plenty of space, clean, great equipment, nice people. And it's $15/month. I'm in a rural town and we
don't really "deserve" a nice gym but we have a big military base close which is why we get a lot of stuff thats really ment for bigger cities. No complaints. Literally all
other gyms on town are in basements (not that that is necessary a bad thing).
That and usually there's some nice amenities. I almost quit my gym in favor of a local powerliftimg gym, but I couldn't bring myself to leave behind the sauna and hot
tub.
Thank god, I didn’t want to do them anyway! :)
Great dad joke. Thanks for that!
Thanks! I'll pass the news on to my trainer so I can get out of em.
What weight are the plates on that bar? I can't tell what the first large one is because the others kind of look like 45s
>Tore my bicep off

Tore it off? Seems like dramatic phrasing lol. Is it just gone?
Next time you are trying to bust out that last squat, remember … Near, far, wherever you are I believe that the heart does go on …
Offer to swap phone numbers and when you are in his new city maybe check out his new gym.
Not entirely related, but sometimes if gas gets past me, I get really nervous that I accidentally sharted. I *know* I didn’t, but the feeling is still there.
Shitty day for sure.
Did you figure out how that had ended up where you were sitting?
I’d literally never return to that establishment lol
I would change gyms
Bro, just own it. Maintain eye contact while farting loudly to assert dominance.
Feel you bro. I actually pooped my pants after my 10k.

The walk of shame is embarrassing
oh no. ;O
Time for some brown gym shorts.
Oh crap!
Ewwww!
we've all had moments like this.

i'm sure all those who noticed have moved on with their lives, and so should you
I actually met some of the nicest people in the gym usually the bigger dudes are really chill.
I started doing the pauses at the top and it burns so good bro
Similar experience. I'm a non-jacked male just starting out at the gym but I do pretty heavy leg exercises, the thumbs up I've gotten from one of the heavier dudes- I
was then part of the gym bros. They call me leg guy now. That name is everything.
Hope he’s okay.
> Like, dude, hogging the machine for 45 minutes is already pretty annoying, but add onto that how annoying it is to take up 3 - 4 different machines all across the
gym during a busy time… legitimately the most irritating encounter I’ve had so far at the gym.

At this point I just use the equipment and use it. What a tool...
You should have just told him you’re jumping on the leg press because he’s super setting and you just want to do leg press. It’s unwritten etiquette that you don’t
hog multiple machines when the gym is busy.
That’s the most annoying part. Some people like to hog the machines, like come on, other people are waiting
he’s doing giant sets, most likely. i do the same, and have absolutely no problem sharing.

i just dont want someone coming by a machine, claiming complete stake, refusing to share, etc… because i stepped away for a few minutes
Why didn't you just work in? That's obscene.

In lesser circumstances, I've just politely stated that I'll be working in and that I don't take long rest periods, then I start. Hogging like that is incredibly rude and
inappropriate.
what a dickhead.
You did the right thing.

Someone reacts to me like that at the gym, I'm just taking over your machine, fuck off.
Don’t end with a cliff hanger! What happened after he told the front desk? What did he do? What did the staff do?
Was it calf raises?
Good stuff. Handled that perfectly.
God there's always at least 1 dick head like this as the gym. So infuriating like they think they're the main character
I have encountered people like that. They are sociopaths and they pretend to not hear or see you when you do the thing of waving in their field of vision to try to get
their attention (b/c they are wearing headphones).

Lazy ass man-babies can't take off their headphones or share the space others.
Not saying he was right cos he sounded like a total dick head. But due to the current still ongoing pandemic I would be prettt fucked off if someone touched me.
you got mogged
Body parts i.e. what you’re training, words of encouragement i.e. good job etc, what’s next etc. did you have a good time? same time tomorrow etc.
Know how to ask for directions and order food for menu and emergencies for starters

Then maybe things like slangs? Pop culture?
eat big, get big!
I’m extremely glad I don’t get them hunger bangs anymore! They’re the reason I was overweight my whole life
When I was running competitively I had an elaborate pre-race routine. 90% of the purpose was to make a BM happen at the right time.
this week was my 2rm test. new prs. next week is gon be 1rm test. looks like im having a new pb!!!! excited! oh uh. modified jnt 2.0.
Probably still crying at home.
Now here’s what we hid from you: we judge ego lifters with bad forms. ;)
Good on you for getting back into it. Keep going. Consistency is key.
I 100% agree with this, the only reason I got into the gym was because I asked 2 of my friends who did it last year (We are at college, using the campus gym) to
come with me and one of them really helped me by doing workouts with me for the first week or so, now that they're busy a lot of the time I've still gotten in the gym
every weekday, even by myself, and nobody has bothered me at all. It's great
So a regular fitittor lol
Nice! I tend to get stares with my weighted pull-ups too (22lbs). Hardly anybody does it in my gym.
With great power, comes great responsibility.
[deleted]
"Before I hit the bench, I write a letter to my family. Cuz this shit is do or die." - The Brofessor
I don’t ego lift, but I get really embarrassed asking someone to spot. Like, I lift ok weight, but it’s nothing genuinely absurd enough to need a spotter. I just don’t
want that 1/100 chance.
Failing bench presses sometimes happen real fast, without a lot of warning. Doesn't even need to be ego lifting, a shoulder twinge or whatever can make a 6RM
into a life altering event.

I'm in the minority, but IMO putting 50+ kg up over your head/face/neck without appropriate safety equipment is asking for trouble. Safeties keep you safe.
I just started out and our gym has a bench press where the bar is held by metal-wires and if you drop it just stops, similar to the mechanism in a seatbelt. I think it's
pretty good to have this machine reading this story... Hope he is well.
Ego lifting?
Out of curiosity, how much was he benching?

Without a spotter I always do a weight I know I can do three reps of minimum.
One of my greatest fears. Also probably a reason my bench press is like 150lb less than my max chest press number. You guys must have gotten there
immediately.
Ouch. I had a couple of those months ago, and it just kept getting worse, with AC joint pain and every muscle off the back of my scapula cramping up for weeks,
one after the other. So uh... Watch out, I guess?
Briffault's law: The female, not the male, determines all the conditions of the animal family. Where the female can derive no benefit from association with the male,
no such association takes place.
at least he isn't afraid of rejection. that's how you grow
If it wasn't for that commute I would be very jealous. I'm stuck with a more commercially focused gym with smooth bars and lifetime fitness equipment, but the 5
minute walk from my house is worth the trade off. I don't even know of a powerlifting gym within an hour of where I live other than one place in town that is
extremely sketch and always absolutely filthy.
I used to study in between sets. There’s a lot of time left on the table during a workout, especially if you take longer rests like me (3 minutes). You can take photos
of your notes at home and go over them, read through an e-book, or find quizzes online related to the subject you’re studying.
you damn right
That's because it's not a gym. It's a fitness club or some shit. You wanna use a barbell you go to a gym focused on it.
There's about a billion "do not pour water on the rocks it is a dry sauna pouring water on the rocks is a fire hazard" signs in our sauna. The sauna got wrecked for
the second time in a year and now it's attended hours only. :'(
Is this a thing that it's not allowed? Where I come from the sauna typically has a furnace with a pile of rocks on top and pouring water on them is how you control
humidity. Just got to make sure the rocks are hot enough that the water evaporates quickly.

In social events, that could be a bit of beer for a nice smell in the sauna.
I can never figure out the OHP (I am weak AF on this and cannot make any progress), can you elaborate on this?
Same weight and same goals for me! It’s a stubborn lift but will be so great to get there
What's bracing?
I can’t get the hang of it. Whenever I have made any conscious effort to brace, the rep has felt harder.
Probably going where there is a lot of activity so he can get attention would be my guess lol
My gym is massive and busy and for some reason only has 2 squat racks. We have this same problem. Literally using it for anything other than squats makes me
crazy. Pull ups, curling, deadlifts, a girl even pulled a bench over once and used it for her vagina thrusts (you know the ones lol)
We have dedicated places for all of these activities. So rude but they don’t seem to get it.
I love these threads. Sometimes I feel like I'm just being extra by getting upset over stuff like this but I'm not the only one. Like I see stuff like this so much that I
gaslight myself into believing that I'm just being overly particular. And also, WTF is up with gyms only having 3 squat racks? Compared to machines, squat racks
and bars are way cheaper to buy (and maintain) and can be used for a ton of stuff although this is often to the aggravation of us serious lifters who use them for
what they are actually meant for.
I do the same thing, I don't interact with people but they have funny names:

Hip to waist librarian: tiny waist wide hips, likes like a librarian. I think she knows her figure and tears certain guys.

80s bully: big dude, but looks like the bully from 80s movies, he works out with,

Coulda gone pro dad: huge guy, looks like a high school gym teacher now, but looks like he has a solid run for the NFL when he was younger.

Quarter rep: older guy, dresses in all sweats, gets on every machine and proceeds to quickly do a quarter of the motion; seriously on the leg press, his knees barely
bend before he straightens them.

Insta workout: she comes in and does whatever the popular Instagram or TikTok routine of the week is.

Future PT patient: not big at all, but throws around big weight with no form, constantly stretching his back.
I call myself Walk-around Man. After every set I walk in circles with my hands on my hips.
This comment has made me want a gym nickname and I am looking forward to going to the gym today to finish giving all the other regulars nicknames in my head.
He knows what he’s doing lol
I think he wanted you to clip his toenails for him
My only advice is stay consistent and don't find excuses to skip. The gym is x amount of time that's a part of your day now.
Awesome, muscle-ups have always been a goal for me. Can I ask how much you weigh? I don't feel toooo bad about not being there yet because I'm about 200
lbs.
 Awesome! I have been training for these for a couple months. Are you doing them on rings or a straight bar? I can do them with the rings, but not yet on the bar.
Are there usually more women? I can think of a handful of other women that go to my gym, but it's not a lot.
My gym is maybe 10% women. I think that’s normal?
Hard to say without set and rep numbers but deadlift 3x a week seems a bit much combined with squats. Prepare yourself for t-rex mode considering the amount of
lower vs upper body. Otherwise solid linear progression
I can't believe no one has asked this, what are you doing to them lol? Are you picking apart their philosophies/knowledge to the point they feel unworthy and leave?
Maybe it's you?
For whatever reason I've heard Ace of Base's "The Sign" multiple times in the last few weeks. Most recently it was at the gym and I PRed my curls to it.
Yesterday I saw a guy on a bench press bench doing split squats with a jump, which was annoying because there are a lot of other places he could do that,
including step-up/jump boxes just for that, but he was jumping so high and explosively I couldn't even be mad. Dude was getting at least 4 feet jumping out of a split
squat.
I can't imagine going through that. When I suffered a chest injury a few months ago, mid decline bench press, Broseph came over and helped lift the weight off me.
Smh. The main benefit of the gym is being around people trying to do the same things you're doing.
Bystander Effect,
Take stock in those same strangers and imagine someone needing CPR.

**Now that you’ve read, friends, go learn CPR!**
You should probably go down in weight then if it happens often lol or ask somebody to spot you before starting
Ask for a spot. I have no qualms about that. I just tell them to not fucking touch the goddamn bar unless i shout a specific word.

Why didn’t you ask for a spot with such a heavy lift? If this isn’t the first time, why haven’t you learned to ask for a spot? I’m not trying to sound like a douche, but
this is a something you’re bringing onto yourself and then trying to pass blame on others which is nonsense. Always ask for a spot with heavy weight. Injuries are no
joke.
Give better instructions. Not everyone is an expert in this and most people would rather think they’re saving your life than let you hit that PR alone. When I ask for a
spot I say specifically to not touch the bar unless I call out the word “help”. Does the trick
3 sets of kegels to failure.
If you're mostly recovered get that full body bench, deadlift, military, squat. Hope your lifts go well!
Do you mean you all drink from the same bottle, or that you decant the contents of the bottle into paper cups?
Just curious, what country are you in?
Did you get fuked in the arse hard??
Don't record people at the gym.
That was 2018-2019 I'm in full remission now. Thanks!
Thank you! still trying to get back in to exercising.
>Sort've

The complement to "could of"
I did - and then I edited to finish it.
Yeah, I have noticed everyone there seems to be pretty wholesome, but social anxiety takes over hard. I'll get over it eventually
Never understood the hyping people up aspect of lifting. You're either strong enough to lift the weight of you're not, doesn't matter how loud however many people
are screaming "HIPS/PUSH!" Always found it cringe outside of competitions.

Makes you look retarded as fuck if you end up missing the lift lol
I'm a dude
This could be an app. Include a place for user reviews, either throw in ads or let gym owners charge a fee and take a cut
You might be on to something here.
The downside is, random meatheads are bound to encourage bad form or try to guide you to some wacky supplement regimen they swear by.
Yes they're much cheaper here too. I think the equipment thing depends on what you want to train though, as I assume most non-chain gyms will catar more to
specific groups and have equipment geared toward that group (e.g. tires to flip, more squat racks or extra places to do pilates or whatever)
Yea probably gunna get a second membership at PF as the LA Fitness hasn't gone back to precovid hours. So I can do PF after work.
Planet Fitness from my experience is good in the suburbs but not urban areas.

Definitely perks to it being the biggest chain, which I think it is.
Clearly homemade 100s ya goob.
Well what do you call tearing something off of the bone? It's now surgically reattached.
And don't trust the fart when you're in the hole.
 and his body
I got his number, actually. We wanted to synch our routines some time in order for us to be each other's spotter, but it just never worked out. I might propose
working out together if I'm ever in his town, that's a good idea!
I’ve pretty much stopped wearing gray at this point.
Yes, he shat himself.
I must have been when I sat down in the park earlier. How I didn't notice myself is beyond me though :/
They say if you fart through a shit stain the fart becomes twice as powerful
Hahahhahahahah
I was shocked when I came to this conclusion several months into being at the gym. At first, I insecurely thought all of the big dudes were being condescending, but
nope, they just tend to be really chill dudes who understand nuance
I have this perception that guys who are like, pretty decently muscular, tend to be kind of obnoxious like they're getting ahead of themselves in their attitude, but
guys who are REALLY big/strong are extremely laid back.
I used to work out at a power lifting gym that was frequented by bikers.

Intimidating af, but once they saw you were there to work hard they were super nice and helpful.
My thoughts exactly.. it’s the gym bro’s who have been working out and put a little bit of muscle that are often douche bags.
big dudes are in their happy place at the gym and they can speak with experience and authority on almost any gym related topics.
He is doing good. The idiot decided not to go to the doctors even after everyone insisted he should, but he seems to be fine.
A couple weeks ago I had switched handles on a cable machine, set a new weight and started doing facepulls when a guy came jogging from the dumbbells across
the gym mid-set to interrupt me and say he was still using it.

Like dude if you're gonna superset you have to have your stuff right in one space you can't just be running around the whole gym expecting people to wait for you
45 minutes on any one piece of equipment is a horrid move.
Every dude with the bench at my place unfortunately.
If you tell me you’re super setting while using multiple machines and I want to use one of those machines, I’m going to jump on that machine. Unless the gym is
basically empty, then you should expect to lose your machines during your super set.
If you’re using more than one machine when there’s other people in the same area you’re a dick
> because i stepped away for a few minutes

How *many minutes* do you suppose you’re entitled to hog a machine that you’ve walked away from?
Don't mean to confuse -- I actually did work in. He actually had the decency to offer for me to work in with him, so I wasn't too upset about him using the machine
for 45 minutes. What really set me off was the fact that, later on, I realized he was running around the gym using other equipment while still claiming dibs on the leg
press. It legit seemed like he wanted to do his whole legs routine without being "inconvenienced" by the fact that he couldn't superset leg press whenever he
wanted lol.
It was literally my last exercise for the day because he took so long with the machine that I decided to do everything else while I was waiting. So I told the front desk
person what happened and that I just needed to do 2 more sets and I'm out. Front desk person told the guy to just wait it out and that was that.


The guy kept looking at me while I was resting but I just didn't care as that was the only time I'd ever be at that gym since I was just visiting from out of town.
Why? The virus doesnt even spread by touching people, it’s an airborne virus, so if somebody else had the virus, it doesnt make a difference if the touch you or not
I know one for encouragement, body parts could be a good one. Maybe I need to learn how to say, one more set.
Those are things I know how to do, I’m talking about things people working out together would commonly say to one another in the gym
Was a TM test week for me, feels good when your TM is higher than previous 1rm!
I've been doing 531 for 8 cycles now and have decreased the weight on a couple lifts as per the book. How often do you test 1rm and why?
But I got through the 5 lbs lighter set without much problem last week! I have to keep the progressive overload going!
Indeed
That's the thing, I'm neither the biggest, or the strongest, or most ripped. Not by a long shot.

I just train hard and do both powerlifting and calisthenics style training.
If it makes you feel any better i have never been denied a spot when I've asked and never refused one when someone asked me.

I think most people who lift know the struggle and the risks and find it rewarding to help out.
Same here. I'm so socially awkward in life generally.
Thats why I tend to do higher reps my bench is weak. I'm not about to ask for a spot on my weak ass bench
I stopped asking for a spotter because I got sick of people helping me with the lift, even when I explicitly instructed them to not help me unless I'm pinned or ask for
it.
Yesterday I had a guy come up and ask me if I could help him out on bench. It was his first time in a gym and had no idea what he was doing. I was super flattered
and happy to take like 10 minutes or whatever to get him going. After that for the next hour he would come up to me every ten minutes or so to ask me about
another exercise.

Point of that is to say that you should ask. I think for often than not people are flattered and willing to help people looking for help.
I’ve never asked even though if someone asks me I will 100% say yes.
ive never asked anyone to spot me in my life. it takes me months just to make eye contact with people i see in there every day.
I've been lifting on and off for 14 years and I have never dropped the weight nor seen it happen to anyone else. Sure I've failed and had to do a controlled roll of
shame before (once or twice) but never uncontrolled or anything. Do you see dangerous situations involving the bench happen often?
Fear of death is all the safety I need. Survival of the fittest yo.

But yeah. Only safeties to be found in my gym are the squat rack sadly.
50+?

Roll of shame, baby
At my gym, the only place to bench is in power cages (unless you're doing DB over in that section obviously). It drives me fucking nuts to see people specifically
remove the safeties and then start benching. I know for a fact you can get your full rom with the safeties on. It's so stupid.
50kg is really not a lot of weight to have on top of you.
Ego lifting is when you try to lift more than what you know you reasonably can lift, usually to look strong in front of others. Doesn't include trying for 1RM PRs if you
know you could realistically get it based on your training.
It’s like fucking trendy to call heavy lifting or going for 1-3 RM as ego lifting these days. Ego lifting exists but it’s just an overused buzzword right now.
I have no idea what the other reply is talking about, I've never seen it used toward people doing normal strength work. It's going up to a weight you can't control or
move correctly because you're trying to appear strong instead of get strong.
Um uh... yeah I guess hehe. My shoulder feels fine right now and I hope yours gets better
Lol, agreed!!
I have a Anytime Fitness that I've been going to for a while that's a 10-15 minute walk, but I went looking for an upgrade (walking with my bag/gear was a pain
though so I just chuck it in the car and drive).

Apart from the gym I've been trying out there's another gym like it but 25 minutes in the *other* direction from my house! The upsides being that there's no highway
and it's only 20km.

The travel this past week has made me think there's something wrong with my car's fuel economy though...
Check out Chegg Prep. Digital notecards that you can create and study through on your phone.
i read my notes aloud and record them and listen to them on runs
Thank you I actually listen to my book notes while doing cardio, I appreciate the advice. I’m definitely gonna study between sets, I never thought of that I’m usually
at the gym for 4 hours so I should be able to get more studying in.
It’s so annoying, it was an old guy so I’m assuming he just wanted to get a bunch of steam in a short amount of time
Depends on the sauna, at my gym we have a dry sauna and doing that will destroy the heater. I think even in a sauna where you're allowed to pour water on the
rocks, it's bad form to use weird smelling water.
For me it's all in the bracing. There's a really good juji mufu video where he explains how Larry Wheels showed him to ohp. But basically it's really hard to get a
good brace once you're already loaded into a front rack position so if you get a good brace into the stomach before you pick up the weight you have a much more
solid base to press from. After that bar path is really important, move yourself around the bar rather than moving the bar around you, ideally the bar path should be
a straight line up and down. Finally play around with different grip widths, I grip wider than a close grip bench but narrower than a regular bench.
>I can never figure out the OHP (I am weak AF on this and cannot make any progress), can you elaborate on this?

[Really good stuff on pressing, here](https://www.reddit.com/r/weightroom/comments/g69f68/mikes_center_for_kids_who_cant_press_good_and_who)
Jeff Nippard has a really good video in technique and setup. I was a bit nervous about trying suicide grip but it's noticeably easier once you're used to it.
In think different cues work for different people, but the one that helped me most was to squeeze my glutes. If they are tensed up, that means you aren't using your
legs to cheat and it gives a solid base.
I also wanna know.
Taking a deep belly breath, then, without exhaling, taking a second deep chest breath and holding it through the rep while flexing your back sides and belly.
Harder as in the lift itself feels harder to complete/the weight feels heavier, or harder as in you're running out of oxygen?

For me the benefits are especially apparent for squats; it feels much easier to come up out of the hole when I've braced.
Hello! I am walk-around lady. Sometimes I also drink water too fast and it spills down my shirt.
See you at my gym weekly!
Ha that's me. Sometimes I worry that I'm glaring-man because I tend to stare off into space between tough sets and someone frequently walks into my staring spot
without me fully realizing.
ayyy what’s up my gym clone

I weigh about 174lbs. You will get there!
I am doing them on a straight bar.
I try to go for the quieter times when I can, so usually there’ll be maybe 5 others, pretty evenly split men:women. There’s not usually a 10:1 ratio tho lol.
3 sets of five! And yeah I eat and sleep a lot. Will keep it up until progress turns to weekly and will do C25k
I might have annoyed one of them by casting doubt over their faith in bioelectrical impedance to measure body composition

Not sure about the rest. Body odour maybe?
It must be, I'm the common denominator. That was rather the point of my post.
I had a dream about giving somebody CPR last night and woke up thinking I should take a refresher course.
exactly especially for 2 reps lol
[deleted]
You get BACK PAIN from THAT?!?! Improve your form dear!
That dude I'm recording straight in front of him.
What a wild sequence of events. Glad to hear you're doing well dude!
And before you complete the lift, you wouldn't know if you're strong enough or not.
The only way to know is to lift.
Shooting down people who are trying their best is what losers do.
In India at least, there is (fitternity.in). They have their own membership program where you can use any gym on the network - but what works best is having a
membership at your preferred gym and getting either a week long pass or pass for a certain number of workouts when you’re travelling.
Yeah, that's a good point! Like I said, it's the nicest gym around so it attracts a generally nice crowd.
Well damn that's brutal.
But sometimes you need a little rocket boost to reach escape velocity.
Text him a casual "thinking about your body" every now and then to show thay you still remember his gains.
*Ultimate Power*
Size is a pretty good indicator of how high of a priority lifting is for someone and how long they've been doing it. Everyone loves talking about things they're
passionate about.
Yeah, the "gym bro's" who joined recently and put a little bit of muscle usually tend to have a bit of attitude.
Just say "I'm gonna work in." If you phrase it as a question they'll try and say some weird shit so you phrase it as a statement of fact.
Supersetting on two machines across the gym during peak hours is a major jerk move.
Do you mean spending 45 min on an exercise is a bad idea or occupying it for that long is a horrid move ?
no we can share you dont get to just plant your ass there just because youre only using one machine
ok lol
“hog”

didnt i say i have no problem sharing you incompetent
Something like: Great size. Look thick. Solid. Tight. Keep us all posted on your continued progress with any new progress pics or vid clips. Show us what you got
man. Wanna see how freakin' huge, solid, thick and tight you can get. Thanks for the motivation.

Seriously: Anything you need for form cues. E.g. depth, range of motion, all the anatomy, tension. Think about how you would teach lifting and translate that, that
should give you the same vocabulary
it's insane cus my training max for these are (sbd) 335/125/355.

for this week, i did 2rm test these are what i got (sbd) 405x4/ 175x4 / 405x3

and i work nightshift mcds. ends at 4 am. take medicine. can't eat or drink for 30 mins. then i've bout 10-12 mins to eat or drink then ride my bike to gym which
opens at 5 am.

don't ask me how. the rm tests blew over my working sets.

on the other hand, the working sets felt like back off sets. ahahaha. gassed out tho.
>Was a TM test week for me, feels good when your TM is higher than previous 1rm!

That's how you know it works!
In 5/3/1 Forever it suggests you program it in a "7th week deload" slot. I.e. week 7 or 10 of the cycle. You do it because you want to. Anecdotally Ive always
enjoyed doing it at the tail end of an anchor template.
I’ve also never been refused a spot, or denied one. Logically speaking, I’m aware that most people are more than willing to do it, but I have a really negative image
of how I look and act in the gym, and it just made me avoid people.
Same here! *Goes to give you a high five and misses*
Then definitely ask for a spot! It's good social practice. You might get a friend out of it. And if not at least you were training safely.
I’ve actually never had that issue. But I usually ask someone to spot, we walk over, and just before I go to get in position, I thoroughly explain what my intentions
are. Especially on pressing motions, I have a really noticeable shake, and my elbows like to ponder the mysteries of life halfway up.

Something I’ve noticed, on bench for example, is that if someone touches the bar, I subconsciously assume they’re helping, and that therefore, I must be benching
less. Usually makes that max out feel a little easier. I’d still they rather didn’t touch it at all, but it’s helped me finish a few reps I thought I was gassed on.
I look for the biggest guy around. A big dude knows the work that's needed to put in and wouldn't want you to take their gains, so they'll usually return the favor.
I once went and asked someone to spot me that I thought was a staff member, and he was like “ha no, sorry, I’m just a maintenance worker”. But he still agreed in
the end.

I think most people will spot you, it’s just always awkward asking a stranger to do something for you. The equivalent in public would be like asking someone for five
bucks to buy something, maybe.

But it’s also important to have a spotter. You could have a legitimate life or death moment, and that’s what they’re there for.
I've seen a handful, experienced a couple, and YouTube is chock full of dramatic bench fails. Shoulder pops, bar drops unchallenged 1ms later... And that's before
how often I see someone sprint across the gym to bail out someone whose grinder turned into a serious problem.

Something like 50% of lifting fatalities are bench-press related. Some dude not too far from here died at home under his barbell during a recent lockdown.
Especially for advanced and long-term lifters, since physical and joint age becomes a limiting factor... I'm about 10 years out from where just the *hospital stay* from
a well-cracked rib could be life destroying (infections, botched surgeries, surgical complications, etc). Thanks, but nooooo thanks.

I know I'm in the minority, but physics be physics. I think it's boneheaded to have giant weights floating above your head, neck, and face with no safeties. People
should be complimenting flat bench with flyes anyways for a full stretch stimulus, so it's literally all the risk for minimal reward (plus extra shoulder wear n tear).

Amen brother. It smells like bitch in here
It's more than I want on my neck
It’s all relative.
No dude every wrestler ever is dead
It really depends tho. I’m a pretty small girl and I don’t want my entire bw on my neck/chest without me being able to get it up. But for some bigger dudes 50kg is
like 1/2 their bodyweight and no problem at all.
Is that an offer to let me drop 50kg on your face from, say, 20cm up?

I'll take it, tough guy :D
I would also add that ego lifting is when you intentionally use bad form or half reps to make up for the fact that you are lifting way more than you have any business
lifting, and then you go tell your friends you curled 100 pounds for reps when you were hip rocking and knee bending the entire way.
That's a good way to gain strength, why would people hate on it?
Anything close to a 1RM is gonna have at least minor form deviation, though.
Anki is also good, it's very popular with med students
Right.
Fair enough. I haven't been much to public saunas, mostly private ones in log cabins or people's basements. Plenty of water goes on the rocks there. If you ever get
the urge to try vodka though, I recommend against it.
>95lbs at the 3 month mark

God damn. I'm at the 3 month mark and can't press anywhere near 95. Best I could do with good form is 70lbs for 5. Anything above that causes me to arch my
back. Any advice on good form? Watched Alan Thrall's video and I feel I do everything except for the little hip thrust that he does when OHP
Basically when lifting heavy, it’s beneficial to have a strong, stable core to help sustain the weight.

“Simply put, bracing is the ability to keep tension throughout your torso so that your body doesn’t collapse on itself during your lifts. And no, I don’t mean that your
midsection will turn to rubber with 300 pounds on your back if you don’t brace properly; but I do mean that terrible form, injuries, and mediocre lifts often accompany
a lack of good bracing.”

https://barbend.com/bracing-cues-heavy-lifts/
what is PT?
[deleted]
I agree that they’re assholes for not helping out but gotta watch out for yourself if no one else is going to
Thanks!
This is something a gym buddy would actually do it too haha
Exactly. If anything, the big guy at the gym is going to be delighted to show off his knowledge on lifting form, dieting, splits, etc...
There’s this dude at my gym that paces back in forth like 6 inches away from the mirror just staring at himself. Back and forth, back and forth. It’s like when an
animal sees a mirror and thinks it’s another similar animal and they have to seem dominant except this dude is just looking at himself. Anyways I usually get a
couple of good reps from the full body cringe that this induces. I don’t usually look at people at all but holy fuck I can’t imagine being so weird and full of yourself.
And he’s not even big!!!
Both? I can’t imagine spending 45 minutes on a single exercise except for maybe cardio?

I can understand if a power lifter occupies the same spot to practice snatch and cleans but I would never do a bench for 45 minutes or curls for that long.
That’s exactly how it works. Why would I have to work into your super set?
you have claim to a machine only as long as you're actually using it.

if you're across the room using another machine, nope.
answer the question (i changed the one word you used to dodge answering before)

"How many minutes do you suppose you’re entitled to ~~hog~~ "own" a machine that you’ve walked away from?"
Thanks for this. Starting the BBB challenge so I might test soon. Just keep adding weight with long rest times until failure?
This hurt me in my soul lmao
Simplest thing to do is to just stop flat benching and swap it with incline. Use dumbbells for your flat bench adventures. 225 and under roll it down. Neck is safe.

Decline without a spotter is stupid and flat is almost the same way.
I'm not talking about the ability to lift it, but rather the crushing force on your chest.
Apparently everyone has brittle bones in here.
I don't think anyone but the biggest bull of a man can shrug off 50kg focused on a two to three inch area of a 28mm diameter barbell dropped onto the trachea, that
amount of force is insane if you don't catch it before it hits you. Dropping a barbell with no safety is very bad.
Because it makes people realize they are weak so they gotta cope
Yeah for sure. But there's a big difference between weaseling up a 1rm and doing 4x12 with garbage form because you're using 20% more weight than you should
be
Where are your hands on the front rack? Keep them no wider than your shoulders.
Thank you!
A personal trainer
I do nsuns, and you should have a spotter on your plus 1s
You already answered what I was going to say in regards to powerlifting haha. I can easily spend 45 minutes benching or squatting. Luckily I am also pleased with
more racks and I train early in the morning so I won’t hug an exercise so no one else can do that one
because a workout on a machine takes 20-45 seconds. theres no reason it cant be shared
no. whats the difference if i step away to sip water or do a different exercise for 8 reps. get off my dick
The top level comment here is talking about someone dropping the bar on their neck (I assume throat). You don't want that with 50 kg. Now that should not happen
normally, but a new lifter might make such a big mistake that that does happen.
Agree. Especially if it’s because you drop it and not just reach failure during a lift. I mean, I once dropped a 20kg plate onto my foot and I could barely walk for a
week, so I can’t even imagine dropping 50kg onto my chest/neck. That would be horrible.
Don't you know, if you don't have absolutely textbook perfect form and you struggle, it's an ego lift? You need to drop all the weight and work your way back up,
until you hit the exact same point.
A little less than shoulder width. Push my chest up and keep the bar in line with my arm/elbow. Squeeze the glutes/stomach and push up while moving my head
through the window
Set time is irrelevant. You’re trying to stake claim on multiple machines while telling others they have to share if they want to use one of them.
And not only that, but you've already burnt out your arms.

I could probably thrust 50kg off my neck starting fresh. But right after I failed a terrible grinder? ... 30kg might not budge.

Watching someone fail a bench press onto their neck is like watching someone drown :/
How often are you working your triceps?
i stake no claim in anything in the gym i pay monthly fee for          i know weirdos like u exist thats why i just explain kindly and no one has issue/enough heart to bark
about it irl
If you're failing, sure you can't push it off your neck, but if you know it's coming down you can at least direct the momentum away from your neck.
I don't. I follow the beginner program with the 3 main lifts
It’s probably because you’re such a badass. irl if someone wouldn’t let you work in after planting their ass, what do you do?
Add in direct tricep work and see if that helps
do an alternate exercise.
Any favorite tricep exercises you would recommend?
Welcome to the /r/Fitness Daily Simple Questions Thread - Our daily thread to ask about all things fitness. Post your questions here related to your diet and
nutrition or your training routine and exercises. Anyone can post a question and the community as a whole is invited and encouraged to provide an answer.

# As always, be sure to [read the wiki](https://thefitness.wiki) first. Like, all of it. Rule #0 still applies in this thread.

Also, there's a [handy search function](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/search?&restrict_sr=on) to your right, and if you didn't know, you can also use Google to
search r/Fitness by using the limiter "site:reddit.com/r/fitness" after your search topic.

Other good resources to check first are [Exrx.net](http://www.exrx.net/index.html) for exercise-related topics and [Examine.com](https://examine.com/) for nutrition
and supplement science.

If you are posting a routine critique request, make sure you follow [the guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/rules#wiki_rule_.239) for including enough
detail.

**(Please note: This is not a place for general small talk, chit-chat, jokes, memes, "Dear Diary" type comments, shitposting, or non-fitness questions. It is for fitness
questions only, and only those that are serious.)**
# Post Form Checks as replies to this comment

### For best results, please follow the **[Form Check Guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/posting_guidelines#wiki_how_to_post_a_form_check)**.
*Help us help you.*

----


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Fitness) if you have any
questions or concerns.*
https://imgur.com/a/5Szxh0p

Could y’all please give me some feedback on my squat form? Someone recently pointed out that I have a major case of buttwink and I have no idea how to fix it

Thanks so much! I love this community.
[deleted]
The fitter I get, the more I sweat. It sucks.

I (M / 34 / 5'8") cut from 200lb to 176lb since March with better diet/exercise, and have built in a mix of biking, running, CrossFit and lifting. But the better shape I get
in, it seems like I'm just sweating all the damn time. Even just sitting at my computer at work I notice my shirt is wet from my stomach to my back and arms.

Anyone else experience this? I asked my doctor and she pretty much laughed and blamed it on shitty genetics. But aside from deodorant she said there's nothing
to do about the rest of me.

Looking for any similar stories and hoping some suggestions!
Do your arms get smaller in size after a cut?
https://i.imgur.com/mUcx3Xd.jpg
I am currently running 5/3/1 BBB, with 5x10 in the main lifts after the 5/3/1 sets. The assistances are styled after 5/3/1 forever. I was wondering if I should include
chin ups on monday and maybe combine bicep curls with face pulls on thursday. Additionally, I was wondering if incline bench might be too intensive and if single
leg accessories are needed.
I am doing GZCLP and I was wondering if I could work out one week two days back to back becauce it fits better with my schedule.What would the downsides be
This is more of a “moronic Monday” question, but…

V-squat machine

How do I adjust it so that I can actually reach the safety lever once it’s been disengaged? I can reach it to actually release the safety lever, but once it’s been
released, it’s too far away to actually set it again, without leaning greatly to the side… hence making me feel a lot less “safe”.

I presume it to have something to do with my height (5’-3”… so not exactly child-size, but far from tall)… and I looked the machine over (briefly) to see if there was
an adjustment somewhere, but couldn’t find it (all I could find were warning labels with a crushed hand so that you knew to keep your hands away from certain
areas).

What am I missing?
When performing kneeling SA lat pull downs I often get a uncomfortable/pain feeling in my left shoulder/rotator cuff. Anyone relate to this or give me tips on how to
fix it?
People who fixed their protruding neck posture how long did it take?
I am really over weight right now but have previous gym knowledge from my hs football team. So I started working out again main goal is to lose weight as im like
40-42 bmi right now. My trainer told me to stop using push pull legs and do 6 day split chest, back, triceps, biceps, shoulders, legs or a 4 day chest triceps, legs
biceps, back shoulders, cardio abs? When I asked him why he doesnt like push pull legs I couldnt understand what exactly he was saying other than because
everyones doing it. Also he wants me to stop doing bench squats and deadlights because those are ego exercises and wants me to lift light weight and do 50-100
reps each set or sets were you hold it at the bottom for a few seconds before repping. Pretty much his goal is to make light weight as difficult as possible. I enjoy
working out with him as he shows me new exercises and makes them really difficult and painful but I am kind of doubting his advice. Would love to get some
feedback. Btw he is no pleb he is a previous body builder but I think he stopped competing like 10 years ago.
is this a good dumbbell shoulder workout at home ?

seated dumbbell shoulder press

lean-away dumbbell lateral raise

rear delt dumbbell row

dumbbell face pulls
Tips on how to get my chest to grow?! (M/26)

Hey guys, basically I’m super proud of the progress I’ve made over the last year apart from one thing: my chest will not grow!

I’ve reached a strength plateau on my barbell bench press now and it’s so frustrating, but my other chest presses are getting stronger slowly.

Been in a slow bulk for about 6 months since gyms opened and put on some decent size everywhere but my chest. Just dropped down to maintenance but hoping
to keep pushing to growth.

Any tips or tricks to help? Or just tell me what worked for you!

Ty!
Today is my chest day on 531 BBB, the guide says to do dumbbell row for accessory, I don't have dumbbells only barbell+weights what alternative can I do? I don't
like barbell rows because I can't figure out the form and always fell like I'm doing it wrong, help
I did tricep pushdowns yesterday, feel very little in my left arm, while i can very much feel my right arm tricep, is this inbalance?
Is low fat high carbs/protein the way to go for bulking without putting on too much fat? I've noticed that I get way more bloated and chubbier when eating certain
high calorie "dirty" meals than I do when I have healthier alternatives. Is this just a placebo or is there actual benefit to staying clean and eating low fat foods while
bulking?
Is there a good website or tool y’all know of that I can input what limited equipment I have/can access and have a series of workouts be output? I’ve got a bench
with a small bar, a few odd weights and dumbbells, and some odds and ends like resistance bands, jump ropes, etc. I’ve been kind of just freewheeling it but would
like to get a bit more organized with it. Thanks!
If I missed creatine for a day, do I take 2x the next day or just 1x and pretend like nothing happened?
How do you guys deal with adductor soreness after back squats? How do i strenghten them anyways, i dont have that good girl machine in my gym
[deleted]
Hey do dips and incline bench replace flat bench? Have shoulder impingement and incline bench and dips don't bother my shoulder but flat bench does. Figure I
can try those in the meantime or just replace fully, not sure
[deleted]
[deleted]
Hey y'all, I know there's no exact science to this cuz it depends on individual metabolisms and a whole host other factors, but I ate like straight garbage this
summer. So May-first week of september. Im talking Mcdicks, wendys, p much every night, sometimes 2x in a day (never hit 3 thank god)

I was working out and am continuing to do so, and have now fixed my diet, but I'm just thinking "damn if only I ate cleaner in the summer my figure would be way
better rn".

Is there any sort of broscience that y'all can speak about from personal experience for how long it takes to "work off" a bad diet? Im trying to recomp is all.
I'm trying to lose fat while gaining muscle since about a month ago, and this worked for a while, I lost 5 pounds but I want to lose more fat. I also gained a nice
amount of muscle. However, I feel like my noob gains are starting to go away. I feel like I'm getting a little weaker too.

I eat at a 500+ calorie deficit (1500 a day) so I assume that's why. Thing is, I'm not sure what to do, eat a little more so I don't lose too much strength or keep going
at my current deficit to lose fat but also strength until I feel like I cut enough and then start eating more?

Right now I still have some belly fat that I really want gone, but I also don't want to lose my gains that I worked for in the last months. What should I do?

I'm 20yr old male, 5'8 (178cm) 78kg (172lbs) I think I'm between 25-30% fat and I'd like to go under 20, and just look better. I workout daily.
What is, regarding to your experience, the best/most fun/most gainy bodybuilding split you’ve followed?
Whenever I do hamstring curls, no matter what weight, I get a shooting tingle-like feeling going down what feels like one strand of my hamstring muscle. This only
happens during the eccentric part of the movement. Should I be worried and how can I fix this?
This is a stupid question, but does pausing a workout and coming back to it still count as a full workout?

I just did a cardio/hiit workout using the fit on app, apparently burned 253 calories. I paused twice though during the workout to leave the house for a bit and to go to
the bathroom. I finished the workout though, but does it still count as a full workout?

Also another question, does anyone here have depression and issues sleeping so you don't have the energy/motivation to workout? How do you still find the
energy to exercise? I had to push myself to exercise earlier, I barely wanna leave the bed.
Why do some people get energised whilst others feel exhausted after exercise?

I can only workout in the evening otherwise I feel drained all day
Can running 3x a week and doing 10mins. of abs workout everyday make me fit? (with a small caloric deficit)
15 male here 6'6 240lbs. I started going to the gym about 3 weeks ago. I'm mainly focusing on my legs right now as I'm thinking of joining track in the spring. Right
now my gym routine is to work my legs and arms on mondays, wednesdays, and fridays doing 3 sets of 50 leg extensions using 40 lbs. I stretch and take a 1-5
minute break in between sets. I also squat 3 sets of 130 as of now, but that number is going up as my legs get stronger. I run for maybe 5 minutes before heading
to the gym.

So, is there anything you guys might think I'm doing wrong or could improve?

I might actually be injuring myself though, as I tend to feel a mild burning pain right above my left knee whenever I stand up. I only really feel it on the same day that
I workout though, so maybe I'm just sore?

I think it's actually working since I can run a lot longer without my legs getting sore and without running out of breath.
Looking to switch programs to a bodybuilding program, but I want someone’s opinion on which one they prefer or had the most fun with. Thanks!
I’ve been doing 531 for a few months, just wondering if I should be pushing for PRs now that I’ve got the movements pretty solid or should I stick to the steady
progress so as not to over exert myself? Not having any pain or anything and I try to be as strict with form as I can. Just feel like I could be going up the weights at a
quicker rate than the 2.5kg-5kg every cycle that is suggested
In Phrak's Greyskull program, would it be smart to replace Barbell Rows with Inverted rows to diminish lower back volume? How would you program the
progressive overload for it?
Training in gym for 1 year now.

I look way more muscular already, but my benchpress stays at 60KGx12 reps, from the beginning to this day.

Why? Doesn't make sense to me, since my chest developed clearly
Do you think HIIT Yoga is good for both cardio/health and weight loss in your opinion?
What is the most natural exercise with weights for building the delts? Even though overhead presses and dumbell flys are the most common for it, IMHO these are
not movements that humans would commonly do in everyday life.

What would anyone suggest? Carrying heavy buckets/kettlebells around for a sustained period of time?
17, 5'9" I am at 180 lbs. I've been looking to lose weight and possibly gain muscle later on. Where do I start?
I've been tracking my calories for a few days now and according to the app I'm using I only eat about 1100 calories a day? that seems wildly inaccurate to me. I'm
179cm and 88kg so I'm def overweight, and I've been going to the gym regularly 4-5 times a week. according to the tdee calculator I'm supposed to eat 2900
calories a day and if what I'm eating now is 1100 that seems impossible. I have 3 meals a day of Indian food which isn't exactly the healthiest
I've got a few questions:


1. Can I trust online calculators for calorie needs? (e.g this: [https://www.calculator.net/calorie-calculator.html](https://www.calculator.net/calorie-calculator.html))

2. I have seen that many people when doing squats go beneath the knee-line with their butt, if I do that my knees feel uncomfortable and sometimes hurt - can I
simply go to the knee-line (like 90°) or should I look for a different exercise?

3. When doing the 5/3/1 workout, in the wiki it says 3 assistance exercises, do I need to stick to this or is it acceptable to throw in 4 if I really want to?

4. I asked this in yesterdays thread already - kind of - but since I was really late I didn't get many answers/much discussion so I'd like to get my 5/3/1 routine
criticized
I am 19, 180cm and weigh 69kg, and my goal is simply to define my body in a way that I feel comfortable, I don't want to look like some buff dude, just well-rounded
muscular.
This is what I put together after reading the wiki about the 5/3/1 :
Day 1
Squat
Bench Press
Tricep Pushdown
Chest-Sup. Rows
Legraises
Day 2
Deadlift
Overhead Press
Incline DB Press
Shrug
Pull-Ups
Hamstring Curls


Day 3
Bench Press
Deadlift
Lateral Raises
Curls
Face-Pulls
Bicycle-Crunches
The amount of sets is the 5/3/1 way, so first lift: 3x5, 3x3,5/3/1 (in each respective week), the second one is 5x5 and the other ones are to be at 50-100 reps thus I
set it to around 5x10-20. All exercises with the % of training max recommended in the wiki. The progression is: Every 3 Week-Cycle +2.5kg on upper body lifts and
+5kg on lower body lifts, also as recommended in the article.

&#x200B;

5. In accordance with that - what is the % of training max for the assistance exercises? I didn't find any number in the article for that
I was doing my regular workout about 2 months ago and when I was doing some pistol squats my right knee started to hurt a bit, since then every time I squat(right
leg) I get a pop on the top right side of my knee and pain in the middle left, I have to stop after a while since it gets a bit more intense as I keep on going. Any idea
what this might be ?
Does anyone here have any experience with acne flaring up after starting out with weightlifting?
My dermatologist has put me on some of the roughest acne meds out there (isotretinoin) and it's still not enough to hold it all back.
what are the differences between

---

regular standing db ohp

incline bench db press ( 30 degrees angle)

decline pushups ( not sure of the angle but probably under 30, think of bench or couch elevation)

bench and pushups with the same grip either regular or close/neutral

----

I think that regular ohp compared to IncOhp works a lot more muscle groups ( especially in the back which incline doesnt hit, decPushup barely does too) except it
doesnt hit the chest. And decPushup is like IncOhp but a bit more complete but the incline being done with dbs means it's fantastic for evening out imbalances
between the arms I think. IncDBohp looks almost like an isolated exercise in comparison.

how do u decide between them?

and which would you do on a day with the main lift being either bench or ohp and why?

are incline pushups even worth it compared to decline or flat? it focuses the lowerchest around the nipple area but why would one focus that instead of the
upperchest which makes the chest look much better or am I wrong.
647 bread is low carb, calories high fiber. Really healthy but someone told me to avoid heavily processed foods with long ingredients list. Food should be simple
couple of ingredient's. Food thats heavily processed to be healthy is no bueno. Thoughts?
Are my legs going to become conditioned to stop hurting when I use my brand new sit up bench? Ouchie
Doing Bb squats, first time in years. Started PPL yesterday and today was leg day, and needed to figure out my working weight/1RM. Past week i was doing some
slight exercises to get my muscles nice and sore before starting the program/compound lifts (I work manual labor and can’t afford to be jelly, hence why I waited for
Saturday morning)

 Warmed up 1x5 with the bar, then proceeded to add 20 pounds each set and did 5 reps. After the 5th set I felt like I could keep moving up in weight, but walking
over after my 5th set at 125lbs to adjust weights my legs turned to jelly and I felt that I couldn’t keep going. There’s no pain but I was concerned I would collapse/fail
so I stopped and continued with the rest of my leg day which went fine.

What would be my best course of action when it comes to squats? Next leg day should I try again to find my working weight adding 10lbs each set starting at 125?

Edit: how much weight I was actually putting on the bar, 10lbs each side means I was going up 20lbs each set.
I am post breakup, my gf of 3y quit me 2 weeks ago today. Since day 1 of the breakup I started running again. I do interval training, roughly running 3k on average. I
have cut the portion I eat, but considering the breakup, there are a lot of time I am barely eating since I lack apetite.

I weight myself this morning at 305, I was 330 2 weeks ago. I wouldve lost 25 pounds in 2 weeks. I'm assumimg this balance is wack, ill get a digital one today to
confirm

My question is, considering everything going on in my life, how much weight is considered a unhealthy loss? What are the complication or danger of it?

Don't worry, the more weeks will pass, the better Ill get, at least I hope so yeah.
Due to my work being in the afternoon and night (my shift ends 22 pm), I can only get 1 meal before my workout begin. My routine usually means I have 2 hours
between the time I wake up and the time I'm arriving at the gym. Is this a problem for gains?

My breakfast usually consists of 2 bananas, half a cup of oats and 1 scoop of whey. Is this enough for fueling my workout, considering I was fasting the priors 8-9h
of sleep?
[deleted]
Hey guys. So I need some advice.. I go to the gym regularly and wanna gain more muscle mass in that case would a **2-split or 3-split gym program be best**? Or
does it even matter which one? Right now i’m doing a 2-split. Currently I have 2 days of chest, shoulder, triceps and stomach and another 2 days of legs, back and
biceps. I do 4 sets and 6-8 reps. What do you think?
When squatting, should you squeeze/contract/activate your pelvic floor?
Hello,

I am a male teen who runs quite a lot, I want to build muscle for aesthetics and also to help with my running, I also want to use weight training for other athletic
benefits like increasing my vert etc.

However I do not have enough time to fit in a 6 day push, pull, legs training (which is what other people seem to use). To get the benefits that I want with maximum
gains what should I do?

Should I split up the push, pull, legs or do a full body workout using mostly compound lifts etc.? I can go to the gym about 4 days a week, 3 when I increase my
mileage before the cross country season. Also how much muscle could I actually gain because I have heard that cardio kill gains? ( I run about 3-4 hrs a week)

Any advice is appreciated, thank you
Hi. I'm starting Phrak's Greyskull program. I deadlift sumo and I squat low bar. Will HIIT cycling on my rest days cause an imbalance between my quads and
hamstrings?

I want to build muscle but also lose body fat. I eat a about 100-150g of protein in a 800 calorie deficit. I want to cut out carbs but some things, like protein powders
and such, I can’t avoid carbs. What is the typical amount of carbs I should take in that will help me lose fat but is also a good amount for muscle?
I've been going to the gym on and off again for a few years now, but am pretty determined this time to make it a consistent routine indefinitely. I wanted to know if
there were any drawbacks to doing cardio in the morning (this will either be swimming or running) and then going to the gym in the evenings/afternoons? Will this
put too much strain on my body or if I be sure to not mess anything up will I be fine?


Additionally, feedback on the process may help to. I was thinking of doing a 4-day split, where I do a PPL the first 3 days and then do a core/shoulders day (and not
do shoulders on Leg day). Then not go to the gym for the remaining days in a week, while maybe still doing cardio (I will be sure to include at least one full rest day
per week). Thoughts?
Do y'all isolate upper back? My pull day is mostly compound back movements with a focus on the lats (pull ups, BB rows, lat pulldowns, seated cable rows) and I do
shrugs/reverse flies to hit upper traps and rear delts since they're parts that naturally lag pretty hard for me. Wondering if it's worth including some sort of high row
movement to specifically target the mid traps/rhomboids, obviously they get worked in my lat training but I wonder if making more of an conscious effort to connect
with them would help add thickness/stability to my back.
How long does it take to say get to squatting 200 pounds? I’m only at a max of 20 pounds right now and I was just at the gym and some guy who looked to be 16-
17 years old was squatting upwards of 250 pounds. More than 10 times what I can do. I’ve been going to the gym for 3 months now… it seems like it would take me
many years to get to 250 pounds
So as I understand it, you should lose the fat you want to first and then start to build muscle. I wasn't done with the fat loss stage yet, but I started Creatine
supplements and some weights with mostly cardio at the gym.

My weight loss has completely stalled and I'm starving all the time unlike I was before starting both weights and creatine.

Should I stop both supplements and weights and stick straight to my diet and cardio or just bear with it for a while. I also do understand that creatine will pull a fair
amount of water into the muscles so that could be water weight and bloating. I am out of the first month of both creatine and weights.

I have done plenty of research, I just can't seem to find the answer to this question anywhere.

Edit: 38 m, 75" @ 207lbs. 1000 calorie deficit daily, lost 47 pounds since April. Push/Pull/Leg set twice a week, Sunday off. About 60% max weight with 15 reps per
set. Followed by 30 minutes treadmill at 18* incline at 3.5mph.
My standard protein intake is about 180gr daily, or since I'm 70kg about 2.5x bodyweight. It's spread over the day, no meat, lots of fiber, fruit, nuts, eggs, milk. Now
I'm thinking of adding organ meat to my diet because of all the micros, but just one portion of organ meat contains a whopping 60(!!!) gram of protein. If I where to
eat 2 portions daily I'd be consuming 300gr protein daily, and I'm a tiny dude.

Different sources say lots of different things on the subject so I'm looking for first hand experiences regarding the subject. I'd be eating over 4x bodyweight, besides
a higher risk of kidney stones, any other stuff to take into account?
Hey bros, I “ended” my cut 3 weeks ago and continue losing weight.

I’m 30, male, 6ft dieted from 228lbs ->173lbs over 11 months with great results. I was previously powerlifting so my goal was just preserving muscle/strength like
most people.

At the end of my cut my macros were 180/180/40 (this was the last 8 weeks not the whole cut) Ended cut 3 weeks ago with a reverse diet and slowly increased
macros to 250/180/55 but I kept slowly losing weight. So I bumped to 300/180/65 and im still losing weight, metabolism is insane and I always wake up starving in
the morning. My muscles look very full, especially compared to my cut, I have more energy/strength in the gym, but Im still losing weight. My goal was to slowly bulk
up to 190-200lb range to build more mass while getting back to my previously powerlifting numbers.

This is my first time ever doing a successful cut - reverse diet - slow bulk so I guess I’m just surprised and not understanding what’s going on. Obviously the answer
is “eat more” but I am. Anyway any feedback is appreciated, thank you
Im following prakhs gslp, which is a beginner program, but it only has a total of 5 reps of deadlift per WEEK(1X5), is it really enough?

When should i switch program?
What do you guys think, should I keep cutting or should I focus on getting more muscle and getting bigger? And can I get a bf estimate?

I’m 5’11 173 in all these pics but they’re just different lighting/ locations if it helps at all.

https://imgur.com/a/SRjVUr7
[deleted]
I still don’t fully understand what high volume means. I used to think it just meant high rep sets, but then I’ve heard people say it’s more complicated than that.
[deleted]
I am very overweight. I’m eating at about a ~1300 calorie deficit (according to tdeecalculator.net). I just completed the first cycle of 5/3/1 for beginners.

I understand that putting on muscle in such a deficit is virtually impossible, but so far I’ve been able to handle the increase in the % training max i lift each week. But
what do I do when I plateau? Do I just keep lifting the same weight each day without increasing it?
I am running Reddit ppl and I am about to start using the 531 progression for my main lifts. Should I replace all 5 sets with the 3 sets of 531, or should I also add in
some additional back of sets( like BBB)?
ROM to decrease between sets during barbell rows? Towards the my 5th set of a 5x5, i struggle to get the same ROM as I did in the first set, does this mean that
my weights are too heavy? Since I'm able to do 5x5 at good ROM on the lower weight so I think I should stick with this weight, tips?
Is there any good Programm to get better at burpees? I can do them for about 2 minutes before my arms start giving out.
What are some realistic expectations for fat loss with a -500 calorie deficit for 6 weeks? I mean pure fat, water not included.
Doing 5x10 after my 531 on DLifts

I read that you need the weights to touch the ground (I dont drop it by the way), but when I focus on that I lose focus on my breathing and I feel super lightheaded,
any tips? I have good form its just that I get completely distracted. If i breathe good I usually dont touch the ground
My back cracks softly, everytime i do squats, just squats, lunges no, anything else no, just squats, is it normal? It isn't painfull, no soreness, it's just like a wrist, or
finger crack, but more silent and soft, cause i don't even know where it cracks, it's just in my lower-mid back. Is this normal? Dangerous? Should I start walking
more? I walk 15-20 minutes a day maybe, should i increase it, so my lowerback is more flexible to movement? Because just recently I added squats to my workout.

Btw(it's eveyrtime i do 1 squat, it cracks, so it's not like once, it's 20 time sif i do 20 squats, or 40 times if do 40 squats)

Adding on: I also have weird wrist bones, i can also crack my wrist infinite times, so i can crack it 300-400 times if i wanted to non-stop. Is it my bones? Should i go
to a doc?
GZCLP says if you fail on stage 1 move to stage 2 etc for rep counts but the post doesn’t say what to do when you succeed on stage 2 or 3. Do you raise weight?
Or do you have to do stage 1 next session and then raise?
25 year old 140lbs male. My legs are not recovering from my lifts, usually taking minimum 3 days to feel good enough for the gym.

I have been doing a high volume routine to keep me engaged at the gym and makes me feel more accomplished. Here's my general routine:

- Stretch 10-15 minutes

- walk on treadmill 1 minute, jog for 2 minutes, run for 1 minute, sprint for 1 minute, walk for 1, sometimes I run for another 30s and sprint for another 30s before
walking again.

- very light stretching and dynamic stretching of legs 2 minutes

- deadlifts 3-4x8 + 1 warmup set with just the bar

- benchpress 5x5-8 + 1 warmup set with just the bar

- squats/lunges (whatever is available): 5x5-6/3x8

- ohp 3x8

- accessory iso lifts for tris/bis if I feel like it

- core

- stretching/cooldown 5-10 minutes


I take a lot of CBD to recover and ice regularly.
Thinking of getting a membership at this new gym and they are open till 10pm most days. I work till 530 every day - is the gym slower at 6 pm or like 8 pm? Trying
to find out the best time to go where ill have more access to equipment
How do I progress consistently? I finally benched 135 for 5x5 since a week ago, and when I tried to add 5 lbs this week I just couldn't do it. Why is my progression
so inconsistent?
I have very tight hamstrings (and as a result I cant do Romanian Deadlifts without lower back bending...) I'm planning on various stretches daily to increase
flexibility, how long (in your experience) does it take to get results?
Can someone give me the gist between 3x4 versus 3x10. Obviously total reps are different but there’s a difference and can’t seem to find an objective answer. This
would apply to accessories. Thanks!
Any recommended pull up bars for home? I kind of want one I can just set it up and forget it as a semi-permanent fixture of my apartment. The doorway ones look
good, but I'd like to just leave it there while still being able to close the door.
[removed]
What does someone mean when they state that you see more results when you “train closer to failure?”
ADVICE???????

Hey, so last month I can’t hit my normal range of weights. Like bench:225 squat :225 deadlift:225. With that being said my routine is going to the gym 5 times a day.
For instance
M-push
T-legs
W-off
Th-full body
F-full body
Saturday- full body
Sunday-off

This past month I’ve been feeling like crap. Not physically, but mentally I guess. Like now benching a 45s with 35s fees way to heavy. Doing 225 on legs go for the
same. And for deadlift…… I can only hit a 45s with 25s….

I’m honestly running out of ideas rn. I don’t know what to do. Is it because the full body workouts are “killing” me.

Plz help. (It’s about to be a year since a started going tot he gym)
I know a lot of people who perform reps at the end of their bench workout with the machine bench press. High reps. What benefits does this have? Or better: why is
it good for anyone who wants to get bigger muscles and already does the standard flat bench press and other important bench exercises?
Is eating too much protein at once bad for you? I weigh 155-160 pounds, around 17-18% Bf, and I consume a 175g protein shake once every day. I usually
consume it all within a 30 minute period without any other food. Will I have any long term health problems from doing that?
Hi people, so lets say i do bicep curls, should i add/remove weight until i can do 8-12 perfect reps?
Generally new to working out, was wondering if this was an effective leg routine for building muscle?

-Squat
-Romanian Deadlift
-Bulgarian Split Squat
-Forward Lunge
-Reverse Lunge
-Hip Thrust
-Calf Raise
I've always deadlifted with an approximately shoulder-width stance, but I recently have been experimenting with a hip-width stance (maybe even slightly narrower)
and it feels more natural and powerful, and less straining to my lower back.

Is this ok?

Can you build muscle with resistance bands? I've also heard resistance training strenghtens bones more compared to dumbells... is this true?
Is the chinup a good replacement for the Reverse-Grip Pulldown?

I want to adjust my back routine to have a full back workout, would appreciated if you can tell me if i miss an exercise

Db row bent over


Deadlift db


Pull up


Chin up
When I do dips, I feel it a lot on my sternum and it feels sore for a day or two. What should I do to fix that?
I herniated a disc in my lower back about 5 months ago and just today did light deadlifts for the very first time.

While and after deadlifting I felt quite a pump in my lower back, where before injury I had not felt any lower back pump. I have done glute ham curls and bent over
rows recently, which did not have the same lower back response.

Is deadlifting working my lower back in ways other excersizes haven't been? And is this a possible route to recovery??

Thanks in advance
If I'm doing say back day, and toss a chest day set in just because I feel like being extra on occasion, will it help gains or will it be too brief of a muscle exercise to
matter?
What are good weight belts for a 6 ft 1 190-200lb person?
Any additions to my PPL routine?

I do PPLRPPL

Push -
- incline bench
- flat bench
- dips
- overhead press
- lateral raises
- skull crushers
- Tricep extensions

Pull -
- 1 arm rows
- bent over rows
- lat pull down
- reverse flys
- strict curls
- seated curls
- face pulls

Legs -
- squats
- leg press
- hamstring curls
- calf raises
- Bulgarian split squats

I started training 3 weeks ago and my bench has went up 5 lbs and my squat 10 lbs for 1 rep max.
I would say you have some buttwink; not necessarily something to be fixed, imo it depends on whether you're experiencing lower back pain/fatigue after squatting; I
did and getting rid of buttwink definitely allowed my lower back to recover better after squats. If you want to get rid of buttwink, the main thing that helped me was
improving my hip flexibility (specifically, I would sit in the bottom position of a seated good morning (without any weight) and stretch out my abductors). When I could
get my lower torso between my legs in the seated good morning position without rounding my lower back, I found that the rounding had similarly gone away at the
bottom of a squat. Hope this helps.
I wouldn’t worry too much about buttwink, especially in deep squats
One note, your wrists shouldn't be positioned like that, they should be straight with the top of your hand resting on the bar
You can also eat a doughnut while you're losing weight as long as you stay in a calorie deficit.
You can eat what you like in both deficits and surpluses so long as it's within your calorie budget.
Yes and maybe.
It’s called hyperhidrosis. You may want to get a second opinion. A sudden onset of hyperhidrosis could be due to hormone imbalances, diabetes, cancer, or other
conditions (not trying to scare you, hyperhidrosis can also just happen for seemingly no reason). Your doctor probably should’ve been a bit more thorough.
Is this while working out, or even at home (e.g hours after excercising?).

I have this problem in the gym! My advice is... (and I guess it could work at home as well)

\- Wear less (swap out a t-shirt for a tank top)

\- Wear smart (e.g clothing designed to keep you cool in heat)

I sweat a lot. Cutting down on caffeine/coffee has helped me some.
I have experienced similar. Only I am going from the opposite side and gaining weight. In my case, there are two reasons: the muscles warm up very quickly and
the fat creates a blanket effect (sounds like broscience, maybe it is, these are just my assumptions). Second: I sweat a lot in clothes that fit me. If I use oversize,
then the sweat becomes noticeably less.
Are you working out in the morning? For some reason once I work out I feel like I sweat much more all day
You tend to lose some fat around the arms, so yes. But can look bigger/better due to better definition of the muscles.
531 is quite push heavy, so I make sure to include more pulling exercises, and I don’t count biceps curls at all. So lat pull downs, pull up or chin-ups, chest
supported row, barbell row, machine row, or something like that every day. Both vertical and horizontal.
Leg work is needed. Just the 531 sets for squats and Dead* are not sufficient.
Jim has changed his opinion on extra leg work during BBB over time and currently recommends none.

Incline bench is a good accessory, I like to do it with dumbbells and keep it limited to something like 3x10 since BBB is very push heavy. Give it a try and see how
you feel.
it's fine
Depends a lot from person to person. Contrary to what you sometimes hear, posture is generally less a result of imbalances/relative weaknesses or tightness in
specific muscles, and more a result of your tendency to default into whatever posture you habitually put yourself into. If you currently tend towards one posture, but
start to deliberately hold a new posture most of the time, eventually that will be your “natural” posture.

That said, concerns about posture leading to injury haven’t held up to empirical scrutiny either, so it’s not really vital that you change anything at all if you don’t want
to.
Sounds like he's a waste of time.
Really can't see how any professional bodybuilder would think squat bench and deads are "ego lifts"

In all honesty, do whatever you want. At your weight you're going to see results regardless of what you do in the gym as long as your diet is consistent.
Sounds like an idiot. Not to mention that doing sets of 50-100 reps is arguably worse for your joints than lifting heavy with lower reps.
It sounds like they're trying to get some base strength built up first, but I'd probably really strongly disagree that someone new or re-entering fitness should **avoid**
things like the bench or deadlift. To the contrary, I think people are far too afraid of barbell exercises for no real good reason than not knowing how to do a lift
correctly. Part of learning to do them correctly is actually **doing** them....

Anyway, they don't control your life. You can decide to do what you want if you disagree with them. I personally highly disagree with doing 50-100 reps of light
weight, that's just dumb. Pause reps are a way to build some strength though, as you're increasing the time under the most resistance for a lift.
John Meadows said something about training your rear delts before front and lateral, so maybe do your facepulls and rear delt rows before press and raise.
Achieve a strong bench, you’ll have a big chest then.
If you’ve stalled, switch programs.
Plenty of work at it basically. Not everyone who has a big bench has a big chest. Don't just hit it with regular bench, do incline, use dumbbells, do cable flyes, pec
deck, dumbbell flyes, wide grip bench press, machine presses.

If your chest isn't growing, just add in another set or two of isolation for chest on the days you work your chest. After a month, and another couple sets, maybe
another exercise. Do that for another month. Keep doing that until you are not recovering properly from your chest days, then pull back a little, and continue from
there.

You can probably do a lot more volume than you think.

One last thing, find the exercises that 'feel' the best for you in your chest. Ones you really feel the contraction, and give you a decent pump. They're the ones you
want to do more often.
Plateau on chest + chest not growing is the best way to determine that your form is off without seeing a form check video.

I had a poverty bench and my chest wouldn't grow when covid hit. I came back recently with light weight and fixed my form and I'm suddenly lifting more than before
when I was on my 13th 531 cycle.

In my case my scapula was flying out and it was hitting my shoulders which were the limiting factor (and causing pain)

Tight scapulas (back and down) throughout the movement.
Breast implants. Or find something you are allergic to and rub it on your chest
Do a Meadows rows if you want a single arm row but don’t have dumbbells. For 531 what you do as accessory work isn’t set in stone so you can play with it some
and see what you like.
any row will do
You can just do any pulling exercise, no? Why does it have to be db row?
I mean. If that's all you have you're going to have to figure out a barbell row variation.
Pick a barbell row variation and get good at it. Barbell rows are fantastic.
Your going to use a light weight anyway so you have plenty of opportunities to figure out the form.

It's not a very technical lift.
maybe.
youre probably just a tiny bit stronger in your left arm or you pushed more with youre right arm
Next time, try single arm pushdowns, and see if you still feel the same. If so - your left arm is probably stronger. If not - your technique is probably off!
The composition of your food does not correlate to your fat gain. The total caloric amount does. Body fat is stored energy (calories). Not a specific stored macro.

The bloating will be a result of what the food is. But bloating is not fat gain.

There may be a personal benefit to staying 'clean' but not a difference in fat gain if calories are matched.
"too much fat" is a function of your total surplus calories, not the composition of the macros you eat.
Clean is a meaningless term, it means something different to everyone. But many people find keeping carbs lower to be beneficial for cutting and not feeling
bloated. So yeah it's probably all placebo.
I have found success with the opposite myself; keeping carbs low and fats moderate to high.

High fat foods can still be clean.
I mean... With a barbell and dumbbells you have pretty much access to all you need. There are plenty of workout plans out there for people with the same
equipment you have
You can do 531 with that equipment. Just do front squat instead of squat and clean your OHP before pressing.
Find a barbell/dumbbell routine, then Google "callisthenics workouts" to swap out exercises (that use the same muscle groups) for anything you cant do with your
equipment!
Check out the wiki, you should be able to make nearly any program there work
Just pretend like nothing happened and don’t worry about it
go on like nothing happened
Keep squatting.
Look up Copenhagen Adductor planks on YouTube
Work on your hip mobility and also just stick to the movement, you will adapt and become less sore over time.
You don't have to do anything. These muscles are used in the squat, you will stop being sore as you adapt to squatting.
All of what you want is a waste of money and completely unnecessary. Read the wiki.
The majority of gyms have personal trainers so that will be easy to find.


If you want a nutritionist just go to Google maps and search "nutritionist + city name" and you will find lots.


I saw a nutritionist once who worked at the local university. Its not neccesarily worth it but its not particularly bad value either. They charged typical price that you
might expect from a private doctor appointment.
What is an "archaic" style? A lot of classic exercises (from compound lifts to calisthenics) have been around a while for a reason.
There’s no 1:1 replacement for an exercise, but you don’t _need_ to do flat bench to get a bigger or stronger chest.
This is normal
That is normal.
normal
I find that too- squat gets easier after about 40kg or so
You are measuring your heart rate?
Try increasing your rowing pace?
“Recomping” is going to spin your wheels. Either bulk or cut.
Strictly with regards to your physique, it's mostly the caloric she protein intake that matters.

We cannot tell you how long it will take to change your physique. We can tell you that recomping is, most of the time, an unsuccessful strategy.
Your diet wasn’t bad because of the fast food, it was bad because you overate on calories. Fast food is considered “bad” because it’s super calorically dense, has
fillers or excess fat/sodium, and generally uses lower quality food than you’d buy in a store.

That said, you could eat fast food every single day and be fine as long as you are eating to meet your goals. I eat fast food for lunch nearly every day during the
work week and at least once a week for dinner as my kids get some McNugget Happy Meals. You just need to account for those things.
You don't work off a bad diet. You have a certain amount of muscle and a certain amount of fat. Those are the things you can change about the composition of your
body. So if you are trying to gain muscle and lose fat, the amount of time it takes will depend on how much muscle you want to gain and fat you want to lose. It also
depends on how you train, what you eat, and several other variables.
We can't tell you time to work off a bad diet.

We can tell you how long to work off X pounds of fat.

About 0.5-1 lbs per week is a healthy range.

Looking back at my current cut stats, I've lost 0.1-0.3 bf% per week (biometric impedance reading so not really accurate but it's a number).
you probs didnt really gain much muscle in a month. what probs actually happened is you lost some fat and saw yourself with a pump.

if your main concern is to continue to lose weight then keep doing what you're doing until you're happy with your body composition or decide you want to change it
some other way
Not doing one , put on way more mass just focusing on getting stronger
6 day PPL splits
I think my best period of hypertrophy was when running NSuns 5 day row variant with the Pavel fighter pull-up programme as an accessory
Sounds like some nerve impingement. Have you tried doing a more extensive warm up with stretching and foam rolling?
Might be sciatica, which has probably been caused by something else, and you're only feeling it on the hamstring curls. That said, make sure you aren't putting your
back in a weird hyperextended position when you're doing your ham curls, and maybe switch to sets of 20 for a bit to see if reducing mechanical load on the area
does anything.
To answer the first question, yes, that’s still a full workout.

For the second, it’s the same answer if you were feeling unwell physically…talk to a professional.
The PPL in the wiki is great. All of John Meadows programs are very highly regarded. I’m 2 weeks into Gamma Bomb now and love it.
Steady progress is a weird place to decide you need to switch things up.
The first time I squatted 4 plates was after not squatting more than like 315 in training on 531. If you want to push for PR's I'd look into doing leaders and anchors
and run 1-2 leaders before an anchor, then go for PR's after the anchor when you're used to pushing heavier singles/doubles/triples.

How many reps are you hitting on your AMRAP sets?
Not sure why you're making it sound like steady progress and PRs are mutually exclusive. Part of the steady progress of 5/3/1 is to push for rep PRs on the AMRAP
sets.

Don't increase the weight more than prescribed. It'll get heavier with time.

How many reps are you getting on the three AMRAPs?
If you feel like you can progressively overload faster go for it. 1RM aren’t even essential for muscle building it’s more just for fun. Just keep good form, train hard
and be consistent
You're doing 1 set of DLs a week. It's not like your lower back is taking a shellacking that would require that. Just do the program as written.
You should follow the program as written.
I wouldn’t change anything. Do you feel significant fatigue in your low back? How long have you been running the program?
Greyskull is a pretty low volume program so you shouldn't be having problems with lower back fatigue. If you want a less lower back taxing barbell row substitute
though then the pendlay row (performed as shown in [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZlRrIsoDpKg)) might be good for you; each rep starts from the
floor so your lower back is only loaded during each rep, rather than throughout the entire set.
It's smart if you have a real reason. It's not if you're just doing it to do it.

Change the angle to increase the difficulty. Add sets. Add reps. Add weight to your body. Reduce rest times...
>Why?

A mystery. Maybe you're not following a proper program and just fucking around in the gym.
Have you tried 62.5kg? What happened then? Why are you doing 12 reps specifically?
HIIT Yoga sounds like some made up Instagram health scam. Just do yoga and cardio separately, that'll benefit you way more.
Hiit yoga hahahha, what’s that like? Do you breath as fast as you can while stretching?
>IMHO these are not movements that humans would commonly do in everyday life

why does that matter

also how is lifting things over head not a "natural motion"?
Building delts is not something humans would commonly do in everyday life.

It it was, everyone would have big delts.
>Even though overhead presses and dumbell flys are the most common for it, IMHO these are not movements that humans would commonly do in everyday life.

Why would that matter if your goal is to build bigger delts?
Pick something heavy up off the floor and put it over your head. That first part is critical
> these are not movements that humans would commonly do in everyday life.

So?
Read the wiki. It will answer all of these questions and more.
1100 calories is incredibly low. Make sure you're counting all oils and sauces you're using too.
I think you should check if you are selecting the right proportions.
Are you actually weighing all your food or just eyeballing it and “meh, that’s one serving” it?
Double check portion sizes, condiments, cooking oils and the actual entry you are selecting on the app.

Rice is also one that trips people up. Ensure you're logging the correct rice entry.
1. Gives an ESTIMATE based on data you enter. A lot of these exist, with varying outcomes.

2. Should find out the issue why it hurts. Could be stretching, technique, weak muscle groups or poor warm up.

3. As long as you adhere to the 50-100 reps per movement, you can use multiple exercises for this.

4. Looks fine.

5. None given, just do something moderately hard - hard within the rep ranges you chose. Usually try to stay one or two reps away from failing.
> Can I trust online calculators for calorie needs?

its better than nothing

its an estimate you tweak until you find what works for you
A doctor might know.
sounds like a doctor thing

at the very least you prolly doing that exercise with too much weight for what ur joint can handle

or poor form?

Id give up on it for a few months.
Ensure your personal hygiene is on point. Wash after a workout.
Do you shower directly after the training and not reusing old t shirts? Did you alter your diet in any way?
>how do u decide between them?

I let my program decide for me.
The core activation from decline pushups is not going to do anything for you unless you've just come out of a body cast or something. I would consider DB incline
press the superior exercise due to ease of loading and the way it ensures both arms work equally.
No food is healthy or unhealthy ouside the context it is cosumed.
Fine in moderation. But also yes if you buy more whole foods that's also a good.

It's not a no Bueno if the rest of your lifestyle is good.
If your legs were jelly after 4 warm up sets and 1x5 125 then no, why would you go higher than 125? Your working weight is lower than 125.

Start low, progress for longer. I would just start at 85 or something. A difference of a few weeks doesn't make a difference in the long run.
At that weight I am assuming you are pretty obese (unless you are like 7 feet tall). In that case you can expect some pretty serious water retention loss in your first
week, and past that you can get away with a pretty serious rate of fat loss. Generally speaking you can get away with 1% of your total bodyweight in weight loss per
week, so anything up to 3lbs a week should be alright for you right now.

So 6lbs of actual weight loss leaves 19lbs of scale weight to be accounted for, that's a lot, but it's not unreasonable. Most people lose ~5lbs of water moving into a
cut, with your size and fat content I'm willing to bet it could be 10. The remaining 9 could be accounted for by loss of muscle glycogen stores, reduced food volume
chilling in your gut, and the natural varience over the course of the day.
This is entirely up to personal preference and how your body reacts.

Plenty of people lift fasted and are fine.

Some people eat more, but I doubt you'll be lacking for immediately accessible nutrients with that meal.
You could train completely fasted and be fine, so long as you have enough total quality nutrition.
That's fine and that's fine.
It's a list of exercises without the detail required for anyone to say anything/10
531 BBB as an upper/lower split
I'd do push pull legs if you can go 6 days a week
Do an upper/lower split - that's four days a week.
You’re way overthinking it based on your replies here. I’d decide how many days you can consistently go to the gym and pick a program that fits that schedule. If
you can go 6 days a week, then PPL is great. If you can only go 4, something like BBB may be better.
I think more about my core bracing rather than my pelvic floor...
Any lifting you can fit into your week is better than none. People can make loads of progress going only 3-4 times a week. If you're a beginner to weights, picking
any program from the wiki and sticking to it should get you a decent amount of progress. But after a while you should choose a specific goal (whether that be
aesthetics, training for running, or your vert) and tailor your training from there. Cardio will not "kill your gains" if you eat enough, rest well, and get your protein in
I would suggest you have a look at the WS4SB program listed in the wiki. Seems like it would be a good fit for your situation.
There's a book/program called "the vertical jump Bible", should be good for your goals. Probably contains upper body work as well
5/3/1 would be a great programming approach in this situation
What does imbalance mean to you? You will be adapted to what you do, there is no such thing as balance outside of a given context here.
Why’d you want to cut carbs? An 800 deficit will make it hard to build muscle the most muscle whilst in a deficit too, go in a smaller deficit
If you are in a 800 calorie deficit, you'll gain very little or no muscle at all.

If you want to gain muscle and lose fat, I'd do it in separate phases. Pick one first and once you are happy with your fat loss / muscle gain, do the other.
You said you are 5’8” and 210lbs. Are you just starting out? If so, you are getting way ahead of yourself. Maintain your deficit, do cardio, lift weights. Your protein
intake is adequate. If you stay consistent and do quality workouts you will lose fat and gain some muscle. Down the road you will have to become a little more
focused, but you are months away from having to think about that.
Nope, just keep the cardio legitimately easy until you're in a good rhythm with it, and then you can consider playing with adding intensity to it
Doing cardio in the morning and working out in the evenings won't have a direct impact to your performance.

However, it could have an indirect impact. You'll be doing a good amount of sport during the day, so you'll need to check that your recovery is on point. If you listen
to your body, adjust your training volume accordingly and rest enough you can do it with no problems.

And yes, the split you mentioned sounds good to me.
If you’re trying to go to the gym consistently, you don’t need to try to optimize. Just get into the habit, when you have consistency then optimize.
You're not going to put too much strain on your body, don't worry.

At your level of advancement, you don't need to worry too much about when you do cardio. If you were doing it immediately before training with weights, that may
be a different story, but unless you doing a serious amount of cardio early in the day, you should be fine for weights.

Just do whatever works best for you.
BB rows and seated cable rows (to an extent depending on your grip and grip width) hit the upper back because they're a horizontal pull
BB rows and cable rows do focus more on the upper back not the lats
>Wondering if it's worth including some sort of high row movement to specifically target the mid traps/rhomboids, obviously they get worked in my lat training but I
wonder if making more of an conscious effort to connect with them would help add thickness/stability to my back.

I've never known this to be necessary, but if you feel like trying it, go for it.
How much do you weigh? Only being able to squat 20lbs after 3 months of training is incredibly low. I would say most people can make 200lbs squat within a year.

Make sure your diet, sleep, and training are on point, and that you're following a proper program.
You shouldn’t be squatting 20 pounds after 3 months of gym, I don’t even know how that’s possible considering the bar itself is 45 pounds
How are you training and eating?
Following a beginners LP program should have you added 5lbs a week, adding ~60lbs to your squat in 3 months. You've got problems with your training and/or
eating.
well it depends on the person.

i could ssquat 200lbs after 1 week of working out and i know some who can do 315lbsfirst time ever working out and some who can only do 45lbs
What other poeple lift are their problem..

Are you following a program here?
You’ve hit a plateau. You’re metabolism would have slowed down so weight loss wouldn’t have been as fast. Why did you stop weights it can help boost metabolism
due to added muscle and you can look more aesthetic
There is not enough information here to help you. Weight, age, height, calories, program, etcetc.
But like, why?

There’s def a drop-off on the benefits of eating protein after about 1 gram per lb of body weight, unless you’re genetically gifted, on gear or something like that. Why
not swap out some of that protein for carbs or fat?
> one portion of organ meat contains a whopping 60(!!!) gram of protein

What does this even mean? How big is this “one portion”? You could do the same with chicken - “one portion of chicken contains 60g of protein”, but then turns out
that one portion is 250g of chicken breast.
Man. You're presumably going to eat that instead of something else. You can't just add the protein from this to what you're eating now. Something obviously has got
to give.
Eat more :)
Eat even more
1st) you dont mention what order your macros are in, but I assume c/p/f? 2nd) macros arent that relevant to weight gain/loss unless you expect us to calculate your
calories off of them. It's simply calories in vs calories out. I assume you are underestimating how many calories you need and are unintentionally still cutting.
make it 3x5 or switch to a program with more deadlift volume if you want. As long as you adjust the weight accordingly to make up for the additional sets you’ll be
fine.

I think that’s the thing people are fine adding to some of the beginner programs. 10 extra reps of sub maximal deadlifts never killed anyone.
Yes.

When you stall too quickly between resets. When you're bored with it. After 6 months. Any of those. Or neither. You can do what you want. If you want to deadlift
more pick a program that has you deadlift more.
Its easy

You should keep cutting if you wanna be leaner

You should start bulking if you wanna be bigger

Decide which one you want and do that one
Keep bulking imo and id say around 14-15%, my estimate may be completely off tho
I have yet to plateau on a program.
I don't let myself get stuck
I follow my program.
Intensity and volume. You are correct.
High volume = a high amount of hard sets per muscle group per week. The number of reps is largely irrelevant, as long as you're working close to failure.
That's because different people disagree on it. It is basically the amount of overall work you do, but how do you actually quantify that workload? Some say it's the
number of reps, some say it's the number of sets. Some say sets x reps x weight. Choose whatever method makes sense to you.
If you want to get leaner, keep cutting.

If you want to start getting bigger, bulk.
At that steep of a deficit I’d just start eating more if you truly plateau. If you just fail a lift once I wouldn’t change anything and try again next time. Bad days happen.

The advice to switch to an intermediate program after stalling is great.
when you stall, you switch to an intermediate program, which generally will have a built-in mechanism for regulating the amount of weight you use based on
feedback from your recent training. strength and muscle size aren't a 1:1 correlation, so I would be optimistic about gaining strength throughout most of your cut.
Good job man. Keep it up.
5/3/1 tells you what to do if you plateau. You will not plateau for a long time and this is not a problem you have to deal with. Keep losing weight if that is your goal,
you will build some muscle because you are a beginner and because you are overweight. You would gain more muscle if you gained weight for sure, but that is not
your goal right now, it seems. Keep going.
Just the main sets, ending with the AMRAP. BBB is a specific program in its own right. The idea of that ppl is to use 5/3/1 progression in a PPL template, not to run
an entire 5/3/1 program in addition to a PPL.
If you're not performing the reps to your own standard, then yeah, it sounds too heavy.
Yes stick to the lower weight, use good form. Anybody can barbell row heavy with bad form.
Why do you want to do the worst exercise in the world for more than 2 minutes?!
Look at a marathon running program and treat it like that. Do your “max” one day a week, do 1:15 2-3 other days of the week.

However, I wouldn’t try to max out length you can do burpees. When you’re exhausted your form starts to go and you’re more likely to injure a shoulder or
something. They’re good for short intervals, but not for endurance.
A 500 calorie deficit will make you lose roughly 1lb a week.
Depends on where you're starting from. I would say noticeable to you (with taking regular before/after photos), but probably not noticeable to anyone else without
the before/after,
>Totally. I'm just considering a mini cut. It worked pretty good last time. Goal weight is 190-195lbs at 15% or even below. Currently at ~184lbs 16-18%. So I work
my up bit by bit.

184 @ 15% BF means ~ 156 lbs LBM

Lose 5 lbs, let's assume all fat

179 with 156 lbs LMB means ~13%BF
Reset on the ground if you must, but deadlifts are supposed to touch the ground each rep.
Are you breathing at the top or the bottom of the rep?
You should be breathing at the top and holding your breath the rest of the rep.
If you aren't touching the ground its not a deadlift its a romanian deadlift. This is a different lift.
My knees do this and my research said no pain and clicking = normal. If you’re worried talk to a doc. It doesn’t hurt to get a professional opinion especially with the
seriousness of a back issue even if the answer seems obvious.
You keep raising the weight until you stall on the third progression, then deload and go back to the first.
Exactly what metric are you judging the recovery of your legs on?
If you're early in your lifting career, 3 days of soreness sounds about normal. As for the stretching in cardio before your workout, I would suggest a different
approach to warming up. Only because the trend in knowledge for warming up has pointed toward using dynamic stretches along with use of messages via foam
rollers. I can't give you sources, but I've personally been able to avoid injury this way, and always do my heavier cardio work after strength training.
>My legs are not recovering from my lifts, usually taking minimum 3 days to feel good enough for the gym.

I'm assuming you're basing this on soreness?
It depends on the specific gym. No one can answer this question. If you google your gym, though, there’s a section with their hours and estimate of how busy they
are at x time.
In my past experience my gym was _always_ more empty in the morning.
Personally, my gym was always crowded a few hours before closing time so 6-8 were among the worst hours to go with opening time to maybe just after lunch time
being the quietest.
My gym is pretty empty at 8-8:30. It also closes at 10 on most days
Try going there at that time and see. Or ask someone who works there.
This will happen a lot, your program should have a protocol in place for stalling on a linear progression.
in addition to the comment about programming, make sure you're eating and sleeping to recover from workouts
Plateaus are normal, your progression is inconsistent because you have a human body.

You may need to eat a little more, or sleep a little more, or deload. Or you may just need more time at this level before your body adapts to this load and is ready for
you to push it further.
When it comes to stretching, at first you get really fast results, and you unlock a few inches of range of motion within days, but then it slows down a lot. Getting the
last few inches of range of motion can take a while.
Just do the RDL for the range you can. You probably won't have to do anything else ro make that improve ocer time. You don't have to hit the floor with an RDL.
Rep ranges don't matter that much you can get similar results from a really wide range of reps
https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.strongerbyscience.com/hypertrophy-range-fact-fiction/amp/
If you have room and cash for it, get a nice power tower.

Dunno why you'd want to leave a doorway bar up. It takes literally seconds to set up or take down.
No, but it is possible to build up enough mass in your shoulders and late that your waist looks small.
They try to express an opinion that you get more strength / mass gains pushing yourself closer to your max reps with a given weight.
1) Bad program / no program,

2) Not looking after your recovery.
A machine press will allow for you to more directly work your chest, bench press when performed properly is very much a full body lift, and it will also allow you to
push to failure or add volume without smaller stabilizer muscles being the limiting factor.
The machine will be easier allowing more direct work on the chest and at lighter weights allowing for easier recovery. Whether that’s a useful too or not is
dependent on a lot of variables.
Its a way to get extra volume in with a lower injury risk. Its similar logic to doing some sets of leg press after squats.
I do a dropset cause I like to feel that burn in the chest at the end of my push workout, no idea if it does much tbh lol
https://examine.com/nutrition/how-much-protein-can-you-eat-in-one-sitting/

https://www.strongerbyscience.com/the-three-laws-of-protein/

https://www.strongerbyscience.com/athlete-protein-intake/amp/

Tldr; Best to space it out through the day. The 40g limit is mostly a myth.

Also protein shakes lack all the micronutrients from regular food so it's generally best practice to try and get most of your protein from real food, and supplement
with powders.
how do you even manage that?
But why though? Try to get most of your protein through regular food, then supplement with a normal shake (1-2 scoops)
No, it's not bad for you, but I question your overall diet if you're relying on 175g of protein in a single shake.
Are you eating other protein in addition to that? Too much protein can cause kidney issues and make kidney stones more likely in some people, im not sure the
threshold of "too much" for that though. But you're likely just eating more than you need with no additional benefit to muscle building.
If you can do 3x12 with good form (get away from the idea of perfect), up the weight and start back at 3x8. Rinse and repeat.
You can also top load a strength set.

Example:

Set 1: 4 reps (a higher weight)

Set 2: 8 reps (a lower weight)

Set 3: 8 reps
It can be, reps and sets?
Bulgarian spilt squat, forward lunge, reverse lunge, shouldn't really be done the same day. Depending on how many sets and reps you do, this may be overtraining.

Good to swap around on different days though.
Easier to pick a routine that tells you what to do.

https://thefitness.wiki/faq/is-this-lifting-routine-any-good/

https://thefitness.wiki/routines/strength-training-muscle-building/
it's more than ok, it's often better.

A narrower stance is one of a handful of very common adjustments many beginners need to make when learning to conventional deadlift. A lot of people
instinctively try to set up a bit too wide, and their knees get in the way of their arms on the way up, or they have to take too wide of a grip to compensate.
Most people are more powerful with a tighter stance.

My heels are only a few inches apart when I deadlift and it's worked pretty well for me.
It depends on your goals.


I personally use deadlift very specifically to grow lower back strength. For that reason I use a narrow stance (no more than shoulder width.)


If you want to use deadlifts as a more general lower body exercise then sumo or semi-sumo stances can be better.
Training with dumbbells is also resistance training.
Yes you can build muscles with resistance bands...but I'd say weights are probably better for a number rof reasons.

Not sure how they would strengthen bones better than weights.

Resistance training whether with bands or weights is good for bone density.
A good set of resistance bands that is used well is roughly equivalent to a cable machine, so yes you can do quite a lot with just that equipment.


Dumbells also count as resistance training so there is some confusion there.
Adding something like seated cable row would be good
You might be leaning forward a lot during your dips. Are you using dips as a chest exercise or a tricep exercise? If triceps, definitely lean back more (so that you're
more straight up and down). If you're doing it for chest, you can keep leaning forward but don't go as far down in your range of motion.
More vertical torso angle will move the stress away from the chest area and onto triceps
See a doctor
You stressed and stimulated a muscle. As long as you have adequate recovery it will help with gains.

Is it the best use of your time/most effective way to workout? -- is a different question.
To recreationally lift in or compete with?
Easier to pick a routine that tells you what to do.

https://thefitness.wiki/faq/is-this-lifting-routine-any-good/

https://thefitness.wiki/routines/strength-training-muscle-building/
I'd add another vertical pull (like pull ups) and a hip hinge movement (Romanian deadlifts, good mornings etc)
This is fantastic advice, thank you so much.

I do in fact have lower back pain after squatting. I looked up the seated good morning exercise and will be doing that regularly from now on.
Second this. Just gradually load your body over time and you should be fine OP.
Thanks for the feedback.

I will say that on heavy days I feel tightness in my lower back that I don’t think should be there. And a few years ago a pinched a nerve in that area will squatting
Well both but the non-exercising sweat is the annoying one. When I work out I can easily lose 2+ lbs of sweat in 30 mins (in high school at peak fitness I would drop
5 in a wrestling practice). It's always a 2-shirt affair :)

Recently I've been sweating more passively. Like I just casually walked my kids around the neighborhood. It's 73 and low humidity. I came back soaked...it's
embarrassing!

Ill look for lighter materials to wear, that's a good idea.
Hmm this might be a good lead to follow. I love caffeine...I'll try elimination for a few weeks to see if that helps.
Another great comment. I'm wearing clothes that fit much better now (went down 3 waist sizes and from L to M shirts). Tho going back would suck because it's nice
to look nice and because bigger clothes just feels less comfortable.
Yes because at night I get too wired after a workout! Usually morning or early afternoon. I'll have to start tracking this better and see if there's a correlation.
Where can I find this information? Is it in newer versions of the books?
Yeah its a bit strange. He did also warn me that those exercise could cause me joint injuries in the future and mess up my body and i would regret it.
Thanks for the advice. I gotta say I was already kind of upset since I only booked him yesterday to check out my form with squats deadlifts and bench and we never
even did them. Also I told him how my knees hurt a tiny bit when squating like a 1 out of 10. I ask him if I should get knee wraps he said they might help but since im
over weight I should just stop squating and do leg press instead. What do you think? I mean even though im 100+ lb over weight right now I can still squat like 225
for 6 reps.
Most of the time if you have a big bench you have a big chest, it’s just progressive overload and mechanical tension
Great tips, just need to accept that dropping the weight to correct form is a step forward not a step back
Coolio. Thanks.
kool kool. thank you.
You might be right, i have only gone to the gym for a month, this week is the first time i went 3 times in a row

Also i lives sedentary until last month so i can imagine some hip inactivity problems :)
Ok, do my replacements work or are there better exercises?

Edit: I mean exercises for a strong chest, not replacements
I’ll look into trying that, thinking I maybe enjoy the powerlifting side of things more than bodybuilding tbh.

For the AMRAP it varies but id say 4+ at least
Alright, won't change the program. Thanks.
Yeah, I fell into the program overthinking hole. I'll shut up and lift.
I've only just started training again, I'm back to square one. I do sometimes feel lower back tightness during the day but I'm not worried for now.
I'll do pendlay rows.
Nailed it.
No, but I tried 65 and dropped to 8 reps.

12 reps because that amount feels like hitting the muscles the most (mind muscle connection)
I think this is a good answer. If you look at people with labor type jobs with a lot of lifting, they tend to have mostly developed lats, biceps, & triceps. And like the
other reply, developed delts would be mostly the result of lifting things off the ground.
I agree.... lifting something heavy off the floor engages the delts a lot.
First of all - thank you very much.
Do you have some recommendations on how I could check what the reason for 2. is? I've had problems with my knees even before going to the gym, so I'm kind of
hesitant
>it started after that day and whatever kind of squat i do without any weight it does that
I always shower directly after training, and I only use my t-shirts once or twice between washes.

I'm eating more than before, and I've started supplementing with protein powder and creatine.
My math was off in my original post oops. But no I didn’t do 4 warm up sets sorry for the confusion! I did a warm up set, 1x5 with the bar, then 1x5 @65lbs, 1x5
@85lbs, 1x5 @105lbs, 1x5 @125lbs and after that last set I was basically jelly.
I am 6'4 im a big dude, but I dont look obese no. I drink plenty, like a fuckton of water right now.

Im not sure to understand how 6 pounds is translating to 19 pounds on a scale? Could you explain?
is that better than upper/lower split?
what about 6 days in a week wouldn't that be better for gaining weight? like the push pull legs?
But when I brace my core I feel like the pressure is being pushed onto my pelvic floor
I'm thinking balance as in posture, in the same way that front delts and chest that are overpowering your back will pull your shoulders forward and make you slouch.
I want to minimize my risks of injury.
So lower deficit, got it. But shouldn’t I cut out a bit of carbs for fat loss and if not, do I just do the calorie deficit?
Wait I can’t do it simultaneously? Damn…now I’m sad. So what should my diet look like for muscle?
No I’ve going for about two and a half months. I was 235
I intentionally pull as low as possible with a closer grip to focus on lat activation (neutral close grip with cable rows). But I guess you're right that mechanically
they're still lifts that will favor the upper back no matter what I'm focusing on.
Well it’s been more like 2 months but I weigh 150 pounds and this is the first time I’ve ever used barbells.. I basically do the GLZCP program and I sleep right, eat
enough protein, I do eat a lot of junk food though. But I also eat around 75% healthy. I also eat enough calories becusse I use Myfitnespal
I’d imagine they’re holding any weight that weighs 20lbs to squat 20lbs
Oh whoops I meant the bar + 20 pounds
I meant the bar + 20 pounds my bad

I use the GLZCP program and it took a bit of time to get the hang of it but I got it down now. I eat enough protein and calories but do eat junk food too… I’d say I eat
a serving of chips a day and some sort of sugary thing a day whether it be a small bowl of ice cream or a couple of cookies. Otherwise, fruits and veggies and
chicken and protein powder and peanut butter…. Etc.
Dude…. How the fuck?
I eat about 50% carbs, 25% fat, 25% protein. I could stop adding seeds and stuff to my meals but the stuff has lots of benefits like extra fiber and so on. I guess I
could stop with the dairy but I like dairy.

I'm okay with it not giving extra benefits, just want to know if I'm not doing anything that would cause damage.
Can't argue with that. 200 g.
Haha yeah, any explanation why increasing 700kcals is causing me to lose weight?
Haha yeah, any explanation as to why increase of 700kcals causing me to lose even more weight
Yeah I was thinking about this too. A combination of under calculating TDEE, and I’m also back to a true strength program that is more demanding on my body than
the last 10ish weeks and I think this is also playing a role. Yeah cpf. Can I leave protein where it is and just bump the carbs and fats
I’d love both haha but idk if that’s possible getting both at the same time. I just kinda wanna get rid of the love handles and get a bigger chest and lats to have more
of a v shape. But idk how much of the love handle area is fat vs if I just have wide hips.
I think I might be a little higher like 17-18% but I’m not sure.
I won’t start eating more because priority is no longer being obese. Would there still be any reason to change my routine without changing my diet at all?
Ah I see. Also, I will swap BB rows for weighted pull-ups. I’m don’t really want to go below 5 reps with weighted pull-ups but I want a solid progression scheme to get
stronger in the 6-8 rep range. Is there something I can follow for this? I was thinking to use one of the Stronger By Science hypertrophy programs for my pull-ups
only(I already bought the SBS bundle)
Hm fair. Even though I’m at my standard on the next lower weight?
Worst in the sense of it sucking doing it because it’s hard or worst in the sense of it being a bad exercise?
Totally. I'm just considering a mini cut. It worked pretty good last time. Goal weight is 190-195lbs at 15% or even below. Currently at ~184lbs 16-18%. So I work my
up bit by bit.
Ah thanks for reminding, I will do that. Just wanna say, I have done resets before but when I wanna do my next rep my legs just give up. Its so weird as opposed to
doing the reps back to back no reset
Really? Ive been told to inhale before pulling and exhale whilst letting it go down (or after completing lift)
What? That's not how I'm interpreting [the wiki - GZCLP.] (https://thefitness.wiki/routines/gzclp/) It says:

> Begin at the Stage 1 sets and reps for the lift, based on what Tier it is. If you fail to complete the total number of reps, move to the next Stage. When you fail at the
last Stage, you’ll use the guidelines below to select a new weight and return to Stage 1.

So figure I'm doing a Tier 1 lift on Stage 1 and I end up only being able to 4x3, 1x2 for example (can't complete last set), then the next Tier 1 session I would do
6x2+ instead. If I complete the 6x2+, would I advance to the same weight @ 5x3? Or would I advance to the next weight @ 5x3?

Unless I'm misunderstanding you, but from what I'm taking from what you saying is that you lift 5x3, advance weight, then do 6x2+ the next time.. and so on. I don't
see anything in there that mentions that if you succeed at a weight, go onto the following stage.
I'll have to look into it. I'm only about a month in (I've been lifting on and off since I was 17) but usually by now I feel a little better. I might just power through and
read up on efficient stretching
Soreness when I stretch, yes
This^ I was a bit shy when I first started going to the gym and I wanted to go when there would be less people and google is usually pretty accurate. Got over the
shyness real quick once I knew I had my form down and after I read a comment saying that most people at the gym would rather show off, than criticize.
Yes mines pretty dead before noon most days, sadly my work changed so I have to work 9 am to 5 pm weekdays now. =L
What do you mean by Deload?
Thanks - sounds good and a few inches will definitely make a difference! Cheers.
Thanks - agree when I do RDLs now, I can just about get to knees, and stop there to prevent lower back arching. Guess its just about keeping up the frequency and
getting further each time.

Does the weight matter much? ie should I be always keeping the weight fairly light, or increasing now, or waiting until my ROM is better to increase?
What do I think I should do then?
Would it be useful for someone who aims muscle hypertrophy
So from what I saw, taking it all in one sitting would make me feel heavy/sluggish, but it will all be absorbed eventually?
Not really. I take in that much protein since the consensus that I hear is 1g/lb of body weight and I'm a college student who is too busy to count macros (Only keep
track of calories and protein) so I just hit that threshold with the shake and call it a day.
For squats and deadlifts I do 4 sets of 8, and for Bulgarian Split squats I do 4 sets of 10.

I'm not really sure how many I should do for lunges and hip thrusts though.
Do you think splitting it up and doing lunges along with something like kick backs and good mornings on a different day is a good idea?
I've seen a chairopractor and a physical therapist, but ultimately it's just a waiting game. I'm trying to find things to speed up the process.
Anyone in particular I see they have a couple models.
No worries bro, hope it helps.
If it’s more than just normal tightness/pump from squatting heavy I’d talk to a doc or PT then
Maybe go and see a dermatologist as well...
I would gradually decrease your consumption to avoid possible withdrawal headaches. I went from 3 cups of coffee per day to 1 and it has helped me some.
It sounds more like this person fucked up in their past lifting career and is loading that baggage on everyone else.
I mean, thats true; this is a sport and you can never reduce the chance of injury to 0. But you can mitigate it with good form etc.

Maybe he's trying to get you started easy so you don't quit, which I guess is fair enough. But again, you will lose weight if you stick to your calorie deficit, whatever
you do in the gym.
I would absolutely practice these lifts they want you to avoid, responsibly. It's difficult, but if you stick to it and regularly check your form then you'll be perfectly fine.
Another major part of avoiding injury is doing proper warm up. My suggestion for you would be to use machines like the leg press for actual working weight, and
maybe doing the barbell exercises for practice with lighter weight. Then, once you're comfortable with your form you can move over completely to the barbell.

Edit: When it comes to your weight, the only time this should matter is if it impacts your mobility (read flexibility). Otherwise this should never come up. Some of the
strongest people on Earth are on the heavier side.
Plenty of powerlifters are overweight and they squat. That is no reason to not squat
There is no such thing as mucles being inactive. Well, clinically there is, but the fact you can squat proves you don't have this issue.
What you’re doing is fine.
4+ on which week? If you're hitting 4+ on your 1's and 3's weeks I wouldn't increase your TM more than normal.
Just do it as written then. Low back tightness/soreness isn’t something I’d worry about personally unless it becomes actual pain.
Your problem is you think MMC is important (it’s not) and you are training at a single rep range without variation. If you can do 65 for 8, then you should be doing
that, and likely 70 for 3-5 as well.

Honestly, you should be following a program and doing what it says.
So the reason you are stuck is you have no idea how to progress. If you can do 8 reps at 65 and your goal is 12 reps why don't you just do 65 until you can do 12
reps with it? If you keep doing 60 for 12 reps with no changes or a progression plan it's no mystery you are stuck there.

Good news is you don't have know what to do. You just have to follow a prigram and follow its progression. Go to the wiki.
And primes you to get it overhead
Got a video of your squat?

Best thing is to either try a bunch of things or just visiting a physiotherapist
Using more dairy as well? Could try removing the dairy from your diet and see if it clears up. Pretty common to be somewhat intolerant
I'm 6'5". Im very muscular, and even with that, I would need to add about 30lbs of fat to the end of my bulk to break 300. That would put me close to if not over the
threshold for obesity by BF%, I (and you) are already past that threshold based on bodyweight. You might have normalized fat because you are exposed to super
morbidly obese people regularly but you are absolutely obese, by a good deal, unless you are hiding a pro-bodybuilder level physique under that fat.

I describe the sources of weight change that might be applicable already in the last paragraph of my response.
I think what he means is that, when you start losing weight, you often lose a lot of weight really quickly that would come back immediately if you start eating more
again.

Whether or not you are drinking a lot, a low calorie diet leads to loss of water weight through consumption of less sodium, a depletion of glycogen, and your
digestive tract being more empty.

So he is suggesting that maybe you actually lost around 6 lbs of fat tissue and 19 lbs of other stuff. Idk if that is right, but the point is at least some of that initial
weight loss is not a real loss of body tissue.

That being said, ideally you would target a steady and sustainable rate of weight loss, something like at or below 1% bodyweight /week. Otherwise you risk losing
muscle, having very little energy, and potentially not getting sufficient nutrition (depending on how you eat). Rapid weight loss also proves to be not sustainable for
many people, and since they haven't developed a sustainable diet they sometimes rebound back up in weight.

Also, not trying to pick a fight, but 6'4" 330 lbs is definitely obese. A big, muscular, 6'4" person could weigh around 230 lbs. So 330 is probably at least 100 lbs
overweight.
If your workout each day is 45 mins+ I'd say yes
Only thing thats better for gaining weight is being in a caloric surplus
Sure, go for it as long as you can manage the volume.
https://youtu.be/qzGOcEuct54

From memory, this is the only video that mentions pelvic floor when explaining breathing and bracing. Can't remember what he says about it as to your question.
But it's definitely worth a watch
Then no, that won't be a risk.
Carbs don’t directly impact weight loss, outside of water weight. If you’re in a deficit you’ll lose weight regardless of carb amount. Eat enough protein, then eat
whatever combo of carbs and fat gets you to a small deficit
Carbs don’t really associate with fat loss it’s the most energy dense macronutrient so super helpful for muscle building etc. How much do you weigh and how tall
are you because unless you’re very overweight, go in a surplus for maximum gains.
For most people it will be easier to cut fats to go on a deficit. Just because a lot of people get most of their junk calories from fat. Regardless you should cut
calories, not just carbs.
You *can* do it simultaneously, it's just that you should be in a very small deficit and still it won't be optimal at all. So, as I said, I'd do one first and then the other.

If you want to gain muscle, you should be in a caloric surplus and eat a decent amount of protein (around 1g per pund works well). The rest of your calories should
come mainly from carbs and some fats. But the key thing here is that you must be in a caloric surplus.
It's like this. If you want to lose fat, you should be in a caloric deficit. If you want to build muscle, you should be in a caloric surplus.

You can do both at the same time, but it's very slow, and becomes less and less effective as you become more advanced.

Keep your protein high regardless. Slightly higher when cutting. 0.8g-1g protein per lb body weight is enough. Don't worry about cutting carbs, the only things that
matters is calories when it comes to losing fat, but if cutting carbs makes it easier for you, go for it. Carbs help minimize muscle breakdown though, so bear that in
mind if you do decide to cut carbs.
You can do both simultaneously, it's just slower and you probably won't add overall size to your frame (in general you'll probably lose more volume in fat than you'll
gain in muscle). But 800 calorie deficit is excessive, I'd cut that in half or maybe even closer to 200 if adding muscle is the priority. Specific amount of carbs isn't all
that important though, personally I like to cut them really low when I'm in a deficit but for some people that will tank their energy and they'll choose to cut fats
instead. Go with whatever works for you and makes you feel the most full and energetic, I think it's generally advised to stay above 70g of fat for hormonal reasons
though.

Edit: Bump up your protein though. If you're 210 lbs, I'd be aiming for 200g of protein a day maybe even higher if you can tolerate it. High protein is essential to
pulling off a recomp, that should be the only macro you really stress on hitting.
I would consider that still in the “beginner” phase in terms of program goals. You should definitely be lifting and not “waiting to lose fat first”. At your stage you can
continue to lose fat and games n some muscle. A lot of the “guidelines” you find are either geared for advanced lifters or are overly vague. You don’t need creatine,
you don’t need “low carb”, or any exotic exercise program.

PS: great progress so far.
Don’t have as close a grip then, if you want to build your upper back just add movements to aid thay
With gzclp, you should be adding 10lbs each workout to your squat. Are you saying that even with the progression scheme of dropping sets and increasing reps
when you fail, you still cannot add more weight to the bar? If so, I don't know what to tell you.
Still they shouldn’t be squatting that after 3 months
I don’t know how you’re squatting that little, progressive overload is key and getting to a 2 plate squat is easier than you think. Just aim for higher reps/weight each
time you hit legs
That's a linear progression program so you should be adding 5lbs to bench and press and 10lbs to squat and deadlift each workout of T1. Have you been doing that
and still not progressing or have you not been adding weight?
mass moves mass so if youre a little bit bigger to begin with you will probably be stronger than a smaller person
Probably not.

I’m still not really understanding how this makes sense. Are you just going to add an extra ~300 calories to your diet without removing them from somewhere else?
Keep your macros the same percentage
because youre still in a calorie deficit
Because your total is still under your TDEE. Maybe your TDEE increased, maybe you had it wrong the whole time, who knows.
You actually need more protein when cutting than bulking because you dont have enough energy when cutting weight so some of the protein gets used as energy.
You don't need to worry about carbs/fats ratios. Calories and protein are the main 2 things to focus on
I don’t know if we have different definitions of “love handles”, but I see none on you, I actually see pelvic bones poking out already, so if it were me *personally*, I’d
bulk and build a lot of muscle for now, and then you can cut before summer or something
If you are unsure toss a dice. You can't make a wrong decision here.
You’re probably right
You’ll eventually have to, because a 1300 calorie deficit is big. Do that for now, but eventually if you want to make progress weight training you’ll have to eat at a
more modest deficit.

I wouldn’t change anything until you have to. If your priority is weight loss just maintain the weight you’re using and work on not getting weaker while losing weight
as opposed to getting stronger.

All of that is in the future though. For now if it’s working I’d just stay the course.
why would u even want to get better at burpees?
When I'm repping touch and go deadlifts i hold my breath for 3 or 4 reps, take a breath at the top when i need to and keep going.
You want a belly full of air to keep your torso rigid any time you are pulling on the bar.
If you’re just dropping the bar then yes, you can breathe out while letting it go (because you’re not really exerting force on the bar).
If you’re controlling the descent then you need to hold your breath on the way down.
So because you said you don’t just drop the bar you need to hold your breath on the way up and down.

So then where to breath - you can do it either at the top or at the bottom. You can get more air into you lungs (and thus have better bracing) if you breath in at the
top. For singles/your first rep it can be hard to breath in at the top and then hold it while you reach down, grab the bar, and possibly strap in. So for them you might
have to inhale at the bottom.
But for a multi-rep set you have the bar helping you get down and you’re not spending time at the bottom so it’s much easier to take your breaths at the top.

Make sense?
You stay on 6x2+ and keep adding weight until you fail to hit minimum reps. Then you hang out at 10x1+ until you fail there. That's when you deload and go back to
5x3+
You would stay on 6x2 and until you fail that. Youd only go back to 5x3 when you fail the 10x1 then test your 1RM, Then do 85% of that. The theory is he wants you
to lift heavy for as long as possible before a deload, at the expense of reps.
Go to the gym when you're sore.

Alright. Stop waiting for the soreness to subside completely or almost completely. For your body to become accustomed to this, go to the gym, even if you're sore.
Then you have two options, wake up earlier and hit the gym or deal with the traffic. It do be like that.
Basically, if you have made a bunch of gains and been working out hard for a few months, your body may need a bit more of a break before it's ready to progress
again.

Deloads are usually for a week. Common protocols include: stopping lifting entirely and just focusing on doing some light cardio and mobility exercises, keep lifting
but cut weight back by 10% or more, or keep lifting at the same weight but cut the sets or reps in half.
For example, taking 10% off your 5x5 for a week and then work your way back up by adding 5lbs/2.5kg again each week. If you benched 100kg and failed 3
sessions you could drop 10% down to 90kg and work your way back up by adding 5lbs/2.5kg each week.
That's not even that bad then- some people literally stop an inch or two above the knees at first.
Follow a proven program
Probably... Downfall of all the links I shared is that none of them tested getting all your protein for the day in the form of a single shake.

Though the sbs guys did find that we respond better to multiple doses of protein throughout the day, so we can probably guess that multiple shakes would be better
Then that's a fine amount
thats decent as long as your sets are rpe 7-10
Chiropractors are not doctors, just FYI
AFAIK they only have a 13mm one, haven't checked in a while so I could be wrong... but I recommend that. A bit pricey but it's worth every penny.
haha yeah thats why I booked him yesterday to look at my form but instead he just told me not to do those exercises. Kind of annoying because I told him I will
continue doing them as they are my favorite part of the gym. He pushed me so hard while doing other things that when it came to the end of the session i didnt
have energy to them anymore. And no he is not being nice lol thats not it he even told me a story with pride about how he made someone who booked him for 2
weeks quit after 2 days. He enjoys making you hurt. I dont mind because i get a really good burn even though we use light weights we do a ton of reps like 12-50
per set sometimes full reps mixed with half reps and pause reps. Every single set is painful af.
Thanks for the great tips! I wish you were my trainer instead haha cheer.
English is not my native language, as you have probably noticed becuase you also responded to my second comment, but thanks anyways, i didnt know how to
articulate myself
Thanks
I will make one when I'm in the gym the next time - if I don't forget it. Probably the best way to check the technique - thanks :D
Only dairy I really eat is from my whey protein. Maybe that's it
>Also, not trying to pick a fight, but 6'4" 330 lbs is definitely obese.

I agree that he's clinically obese, standards of being obese by folk standards changed now that most of the US population is fat imo. He probably means that he
doesn't look like [this](https://i2-prod.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article23345711.ece/ALTERNATES/s1200b/0_Super-morbidly-obese-Brit-sheds-weight-for-gender-
reassignment-therapy.jpg). Just the other day I had the same conversation with my friend's dad who swears he's not obese because he's "seen obese guys" and he
doesn't look like them
I think they could be heavier than that, particularity if you were to go up to high-teens bf% as acceptable fat levels. But not 300+.
my workouts are yes and for gaining weight?
but is it better?
Thank you
5’8 and 210
I agree with you there
Should I just up the carbs and fats? Protein looks good right?
Yeah I find online calculators to be pretty unreliable. Do you have a go to resource for accurate TDEE?
On the other hand I’m enjoying this trial and error so I can zero in on my calories specifically to better understand what works for me.
Also - should I just be upping carbs and fat? I can’t imagine much of a benefit in increasing protein?
What’s are the upper/lower limits for protein while bulking? I’ve always heard jeep fats as .2-.25 of total calories, and the carbs will help with recovery.

I’m testing out 400c 180p 75f for the next week or so, so you’re saying these ratios arent that important?
Ok Thank you, I think you helped me decide what I wanna do. I think I’m gonna get back to lean bulking, I’ve already cut down like 30lbs. A break from a cut would
be nice to get more muscle, more of a v taper and to get stronger.

I’ll worry about abs later, I guess I’d rather have more of a v taper right now. Thank you for helping me decide and mentioning the pelvic bone thing.
From what I understand 15% is the point you generally start seeing abs.
Because they build conditioning and muscle endurance.
Yes I have come to the conclusion that DLifts are a pain in the ass

But in all seriousness thank you for the advice, I guess I have to start holding my breath whilst going down. Yeah youre right, its uncomfortable breathing at top
whilst doing single reps

Thanks again
Ah ok that makes a lot more sense, thanks for clearing it up!
Yes I am dealing with the traffic I just wanted to know if traffic is less at 6 pm or 8 pm lmao the one with less traffic is when I'm going
yup you are right. The sizes are for waist size. I thought it meant like 13mm 11mm etc. Thank you.
Just like everything else in life, part of this journey is learning. Everyone starts or restarts somewhere. With enough time, experience, patience and diligence you'll
hit your goals. Good luck out there!
Try doing some calf raises (deep stretch and pause at the bottom!) And leg curls (can superset them) prior to squatting. Makes my knees feel good and allows me
to squat a bit deeper as well
Same with me. For a lot of people it’s just due to the increase in testosterone from sessions that could make it flare up
that depends on your calorie surplus ie how much you eat
No. Just different.
I personally made more progress when doing a 4-day upper/lower compared to when I did a 6-day ppl.
Go on around a 500 calorie max deficit. Work out your maintaining calories on tdee calculator and just subtract 500. You’re already doing well with your protein
intake. Most importantly hit gym and train hard and you should start seeing results. If you want to build more muscle quicker reduce your deficit or go in a surplus.
Did you write your macros as Protein/Carbs/Fat?
Yeah a calculator is useful as a starting point, but then its about trial and error and believing the evidence of your eyes. If you think your TDEE is 2000 and eating
2000 cals is causing weight loss, guess your TDEE aint 2000. Bump it up to 2200 and see what happens, and repeat forever lol
It varies from person to person.
Why not go one day and find out? But most gyms I've ever been too are busiest from 5-8 as people go when they get off work
Thanks
Yeah it’s never ending lol cool bro thanks
No worries mate, good luck
Plenty of protein. Just eat a bit more!
**Welcome to the Physique Phriday thread**

What's the point of having people guess your body fat? Nevermind that it's the most inaccurate method available, (read: most likely way wrong - [see here]
(http://web.archive.org/web/20130301185720/https://paindatabase.com/body-fat/)) you're still just putting an arbitrary number to the body you have. Despite
people's claim that they are shooting for a number, they're really shooting for look - like a six pack.

So let's stopping mucking around with trivialities and get to the heart of the matter. This thread shall serve two purposes:

1. **Physique critiques.** Post some pics and ask about muscles or body parts you need to work on. Or specifically ask about a lagging body part and what
exercises worked for others.
2. An outlet for people that want to show off their efforts that would otherwise be removed due to [Rule 4](https://old.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/rules#wiki_rule_.234),
and

Let's keep things civil, don't be a creep, and adhere to [Rule 1]
(http://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/rules#wiki_1._hate_speech_and_discriminatory_remarks_are_not_allowed.). This isn't a thread to announce what you find
attractive in a mate. Please use the report function for any comments that are out of line.

So phittit, what's your physique pheel like this phriday?
[158, 5 10, taking advantage of shadows ](https://imgur.com/a/5OSaIkN)

I’ve been in flux with my weight the last couple weeks but back down to 158ish. Hoping to stabilize the diet a bit (figuring out what has got me to this weight) and
then slow increasing the calories, week over week.

Definitely feeling small right now but can’t act surprised given my calorie deficit on most days. I just moved to Arizona where it’s apparently cutting season year
round but going to try to “lean bulk” starting the new month.

Thinking my arms and shoulders need the most attention but, as always, open for feedback and critiques.
F(18), 5'3", 112 lbs

[Thoughts?](http://imgur.com/a/xAiwVMV) I'm not sure what I look like to other people lmao. BF estimate?
F/26/5'4

http://imgur.com/a/Zqt7cJL

Been trying to remain consistent in the gym + diet, I kinda just wanna look athletic /beefy without having to flex.

Thoughts /critique?
[deleted]
https://imgur.com/a/J6ocjpE

22m 6'3 205lbs. Lost about 50 lbs in the last 9 months, going to push it a little bit further to see how lean I can get before going back to bulking next year
M/30/5'10/183lbs

http://imgur.com/a/kfEbyxy

Powerlifter here who likes to stay leaner for aesthetic reasons. Pretty okay with where I'm at currently, as cutting body fat from where in currently at isn't a good
idea for PL. Could use more arm mass though?
[36M/5'5/142lbs](https://i.imgur.com/Wl6waV6.jpg)
Home gym with limited weights/equipment and calisthenics. Suggestions and bf% est welcome.
my progress: [https://imgur.com/a/NBl5HMi](https://imgur.com/a/NBl5HMi)

F/29/5'3" \[123 lbs < 127 lbs = + 4 lbs\] (from march to september)

been going to the gym 4 times a week, concentrating on strength + resistance training. little cardio, but lifting heavier each week. currently 1400 calories aprox. at
least 60gr of protein per day, more if I workout heavily. i think I can see some body recomp but it is SO SLOW.



what would you do to improve?
Calorie surplus or progressive overload on caloric deficit?

F23/5’10/145

From being a collegiate athlete to not working out, to then finding balance and a healthy lifestyle again I want to focus on the goal of building a more feminine figure
and overall strength!

Working out 6 days a week, 2-3 leg/glute days, 1 push day, 1 pull day and 1 HIIT workout somewhere in between. Been eating 1,500 calories a day and focusing on
a balance diet with a good amount of protein.

Progress photo https://imgur.com/a/Hd0DUSy
Hey what do y'all think about my [current physique](https://imgur.com/a/xPXU9Af) and please tell me my weak points? M20 1m84/ 6' 80kg/ 176lbs 17% BF

My goals: More strength and bigger pecs
M, 24 years old, 155 lbs, 5'5.

Started lifting on and off in 2016 with some breaks here and there.

Haven't lifted since the start of quarantine but I've managed to maintain some muscle through yoga and surfing. Thoughts and comments on my physique? Been
debating bulking again now that I'm gonna start hitting the gym but I'm also lazy lol.

What body parts do you think need work? I didn't post my legs because they've really lost mass since quarantine because I don't have equipment at home. Any
surfers here have some advice for exercises that carry over into the ocean? Let me know what you think!

http://imgur.com/a/rWM3E1r
https://imgur.com/a/ebBXGZ4

M/24/6’1”/ 227 lbs to 211 lbs

Really bulked too hard over quarantine so I buckled down and over the last 10 months focused on cutting/maintenance/recomp to slowly get to my now all time
peak physique. Feeling amazing in and out of the gym! Trying to lean out to ~195-200 and then bulk for the winter.
[progress pics](http://imgur.com/a/GWioLrx)

Looking for help on where to go next. In the link you'll find photos of me today at 5' 9.5" 155 lbs. The last photos in the album are from where I started my cut on
April 1st at 230lbs

Admittedly, I've done very little strength training during the cut. Only over the last few weeks I've really stepped up for strength training consistently. I'm not sure if I
should keep cutting or try to lean bulk some muscle. Any advice is much appreciated!
I’m a day late and my photo is terrible quality but I caught a glimpse of my back muscles in the flattering Target dressing room mirror and was really proud of my
progress! Lol [photo](https://imgur.com/a/pJiR2s5)
[my progress](https://imgur.com/a/aohN60T)

m16/5'11/150

have been lifting for about 4 months and did about a year of calisthenics before that, pretty happy with my progress. Thinking of starting a bulk. Any advice?
https://i.imgur.com/EFPdVBQ.jpg

M, 41, 212 lbs, 6'2". Started lifting in my early 30's. I don't do one rep maxes due to my age and desire not to hurt myself.

Bench 275# x 5
Overhead press 170#* x 5
Squat 365# x 5
6'2 198lbs 30m.

The cut continues. 2 months in,

[2 months ago](http://imgur.com/a/Cd8rs1X)

[1 month ago](http://imgur.com/a/gEUJKq6)

[current](http://imgur.com/a/hCLmPsz)

My monthly update to help with motivation.

I think the lighting makes it look like I made more progress than I actually did.
Maybe 1/2 more months of cutting before switching it up. I think I want to hit 190 before I slow bulk.
6'1 230, 40 years old. I've been at maintenance for a few months now. I tore my calf a while ago hence why they're so uneven. I will probably slowly cut down to 220
so I can maybe get some abs.

https://ibb.co/album/99dPtn
23M 5'11/1M79 150lbs/68kg total newbie. I've been cutting (+ home workout) the past 3 months and lost about 8lbs/4kg in the hope to lose the fat on my belly and
get out of the skinnyfat region.

I gained some bit of muscle and lost some fat, but I don't think my diet is good enough to lose the remaining fat on my belly (see unflexed side pics). I'm not sure if I
should even cut more, because I weigh that little now and start to look way too skinny.

Should I 1) keep cutting until no fat on stomach then start the bulk

2) eat maintenance and lose the fat on the stomach then start bulk

3) start slow bulking and worry about the fat much later

Personally I feel like I don't weight enough and should start bulking (my goal is to be around 165lbs/75kg) and only later worry about cutting again to lose the fat.
Would that be smart?

Also what BF% do I have? thanks!

[https://imgur.com/a/CNhnIIh](https://imgur.com/a/CNhnIIh)
[Finally](https://imgur.com/a/Zp7LVwx)! I'm there! kinda, anyway. Pretty happy with the results. Going for a tiger / movie star hybrid look lol. I've been keeping off the
ice cream and moderated the alcohol to passable levels, and work out about 5 days a week doing NSUNS. Been doing weightlifting for 5 years on and off and was
a long distance runner before that for 10. I'm 6.0' and trying to weight 185lbs. I'm 188lbs right now (9% BF), so pretty close...! This is almost my best shape ever, at
44; I am almost satisfied! Cheers folks and happy lifting.
33M/6'2/218lbs

120 day check in:

http://imgur.com/a/wlrgXo4

First photo: 221lbs 22% body fat on DXA scan.

How did I do?

2 months following the first DXA scan I had a 2nd one done. 13.2% body fat 229lbs.

Now I'm even leaner than that!

Image with pump:

http://imgur.com/a/gxZbqPX


Dxa data:

The data is priceless once you have a 2nd scan done


http://imgur.com/a/TQhUPDR

http://imgur.com/a/8PnrzEk

There's even a comparison of the left and right side of my body in size/muscle/and fat. Like left arm vs right, etc
27M/5'7"/150lbs

[https://imgur.com/gZXncor](https://imgur.com/gZXncor)

I've been working out regularly for almost 10 years natural, hovering around 150 lbs for the most part. Don't know what my body fat % is right now but would like to
get to 10% before starting a serious bulk to 160lbs and focusing mainly on strength soon.

A weakness of mine has always been lower body but I've recently been very into leg day and hope to get some muscle gains I've been missing out on that way. I've
been starting every workout with squats now no matter what muscle group I am working out (push/pull/legs split).
Bit of a weird one. I seem to be [missing a head on my left calf muscle](https://i.ibb.co/DWFCnzb/Screenshot-20210925-070906-Gallery.jpg)? I know my calves
aren't big but I've always trained them at the same rate, yet my left calf has a dent at the place my right calf is widest? Should I try to even this out through isolation
or just train normally as they are both small? I do have a history of foot pain in my left foot arch, and my right foot has always angled weirdly outwards instead of
straight.
Male, 19, 160lb, 5’11”

Been lifting on and off for three years, and have gotten consistent in the last few months. No protein just creatine. My metabolism is still going strong so I can thank
that for maintaining my physique with a crappy college diet.

https://i.imgur.com/AECNaHa.jpg
M23, 6’3 , 200lbs. Areas to improve?
[Pictures](https://imgur.com/a/NSPAWIu)
M17, either 6’1-6’2 , 175lbs/79kg

[Physique](https://imgur.com/a/NzriDtd)
Any advice would help thanks!
I started taking the gym and nutrition more seriously back in the end of May. Have been floating around 142~147 at 5'8" these past months.

[Start of physique tracking in June 18th 144.8 lbs](https://i.imgur.com/UH2Omr3.jpg)

[Current physique taken yesterday 145 lbs](http://imgur.com/a/DDYov1S)

Squat bench deadlift clocked in at 225/205/365

Would love to know which areas are in need of attention, sorry my pics didn't show calves. Totally overlooked on capturing that but i know they still need to be
worked on
[deleted]
[deleted]
Thanks for the responses. Plenty to work on!
Male,35, 6'3, 205lbs, working out for several years, would like to compete in a natural bodybuilding competition in a year, but know I have quite a few areas that are
lagging. Your critiques are welcomed!
23 year old male. 165 lbs. 5 foot 10 inches

[https://imgur.com/a/hCcnapD](https://imgur.com/a/hCcnapD)

Need help estimating body fat percentage, and any other suggestions

Also don't know whether to stick around this weight and try to gain size/strength or cut because i would definitely want to get much leaner at some point. Fat gain is
something I do not want at all.

I just finished 11 weeks of [Jeff Nippard's PowerBuilding program](https://shop.jeffnippard.com/product/the-powerbuilding-system/) and my bench went up by over
15lbs, squat by \~20lbs and deadlift by \~30lbs. I consider that a huge success since ive been lifting for many years (but never got too strong lol). Think i put on a bit
of muscle mass as well. My weight went from about 162lbs to 165.5 lbs in these 10 weeks
M35 5'10.5" 198 lbs

[link](https://imgur.com/a/NWIRJ39)

Nearing the end of a bulk. Maybe two weeks left and then a cut.

Feel like I have made progress all around but still want to have bigger arms.
17m 5’7 147lbs
Just wrapped up a cut 168->147
Before: https://imgur.com/a/AkjNdjt
After: https://imgur.com/a/bd18Poh

Im eating at maintenance for now and still doing progressive overload, but I’m on the fence as to if I should keep maintaining or begin a lean bulk. I dunno just
wanted to hear someone else’s two cents.
47/M/6'1/183

https://imgur.com/gallery/ThVdSJt

Things have been going pretty well. I've been eating a little cleaner since I'm going away on vacation next week. I've been lifting a little heavier but it's been rough
on my joints, especially my elbow joint. It's funny, when I was MUCH younger and lifting, I would here people talking about pains and issues like that. (Of course it
was just listening, I have never been a gym talker) In my mind I would think they must be using bad form or ego lifting, young me never considered aging comes
with a price.

My chest has slightly improved but it can still be much better, genetically its not a strong point for me. I never really mention legs, it's to depressing. They have
gotten slightly better though.

I'm rambling! Any comments or suggestions on weak areas are appreciated.

I've also been on trt now for around 10 months which obviously is beneficial, so I'm not natty. I was for 46 years.

This was my build just before I got a one way ticket out of Nattyville!

https://imgur.com/gallery/kq78WNc
[38, 6’4, 173lbs](https://imgur.com/a/6T4Ewc7)
Gotten heavier into high repetitions and purchased a pull up bar. Variations of planks, push-ups, and pistol squats. Trying to get more intensive exercises before I
cave and go back to the gym.
[M, 27, 5’7, 150lbs](https://imgur.com/a/EHhYDZk)
Unsure if I should cut down to 140 before bulking, or if I should go ahead and start the bulk now. I feel relatively lean, but my loose skin from losing weight(down
from 240) has me a bit unsure since abs are nowhere to be seen. Would love other’s opinions
Front/progress pic: https://imgur.com/a/96VDin1/

Back : https://i.imgur.com/590FOtz.jpg

Legs: https://i.imgur.com/sWLd0Eu.jpg

6’0, 207lbs to 188 lbs since May 2021. In 2019 I was about 175 pounds and skinny and wanted to bulk up. Once gyms opened again I bulked a little too hard (175
to 207) and started a slight deficit of 500 cals so I could keep gaining strength at the gym.

Current 3RM for squat/bench/deadlifts are: 255 / 215 / 315

I feel like my pecs are lagging a bit so have been focusing on more mind muscle connection lately. I also have long arms so have been trying to hit arms with more
volume. Would love other input!
M/5'6/22
I was very unhappy with my shoulders. They are uneven. Right is bigger than left. I do bodyweight exercises only. Currently at 62kg and will maintain it for a while.
https://imgur.com/a/KF8cj3L
M/27/181cm (5'11'')/72.5-77.5kg (159-170lbs)

So basically I was stuck training at home from early November 2020 until May 2021, when the gyms were allowed to open up again in my country (Switzerland), I'd
really like a second opinion as I find it difficult to be objective on my own appearance.

[May 27th, 2021 (72.5kg/159 lbs)]

[June 26th, 2021 (75kg/165 lbs)]

[August 7th, 2021 (76kg/167 lbs)]

[September 3rd, 2021 (77.5k/170 lbs)]

Overall I'm pretty happy with the progress, but I felt like I was getting fat while still being fairly skinny. I decided to go for a cut because as a former 25+% BF guy,
I'm a bit terrified of getting actually fat again. Was this the right call ?

It's a difficult decision because my body fat was estimated by my BF scale to be 16.8%, but I know such estimates are generally not super accurate, and I imagine
it is higher than that. Yet I also feel skinny and still kinda underweight, so cutting is a bit weird too.
[Critiques?](https://imgur.com/a/qC6mJdw)
5’7” 150 trying to put on muscle, been working out for 1.5 years or so. Thanks!
[22M/167cm/65kg](https://i.imgur.com/EmGUKx0.jpg)

Having some trouble deciding where I want to go.

Sometimes wanna get bigger but fat gain is a really big concern for me.

Could use some advice on where to go for nicer proportions
M26, 6’0, 157

[Me] (https://imgur.com/a/1DthFzB)

I’ve stayed active for most of my life and have always struggled to gain weight. Ideally I’d like to be at around 170-180lbs. I eat dirty and inconsistently, but I try my
best to make up for it with hard work outs, good rest, and supplements. Still trying to proportion my legs to upper body and build up the chest more.
M17, 6’0, 196 lbs


Just started hitting the weight room at school. I’m aiming to get bigger/wider so any tips and advice would help a lot.

[Pictures](https://imgur.com/a/zmzl9zU)
M / 25 / 67.5 KG / 5ft10inch

I was 104 kg 3 years ago but I started lifting, running and dieting in 2019 and I reached my current weight 6 months back. Been lifting again since 3 months now and
I'm not satisfied with my current body fat percentage as I still have face, neck and chest fat. Would also like to hear what I should work on, I'm currently following a
weekly routine of 3-4 days of back+tri, chest + bi, shoulders and legs.


Hairy ⚠️. Will work on that: https://imgur.com/a/nCfQ5Qb
m/18/5'10/149-151

[physique](http://imgur.com/a/x4YRypA)

critiques? bf%? been lifting for about a year now, first ~6 months were, for the most part, fucking around, but ive been following PPL on wiki for about 2-3 months
now.

my concerns are my back, maybe chest? and biceps.
[34M/5’6”/163lbs](https://imgur.com/a/hJuxani) I don’t really lift for aesthetics (got my first crossfit competition next month,) but I love what it does for my body!
[5 weeks out from Mens Physique Novice and Open](https://imgur.com/a/PNoiaMd).

Can't get a haircut for at least 2 weeks because of lockdown so my head looks like a tumbleweed.

M/27/5'7"/77kg
M/38/170 lbs/6'1"

I'm doing 5/3/1 and bulking up right now. My plan is to bulk up to 200 pounds and then do a cut. Does that make sense?

[https://imgur.com/2CFDK8O](https://imgur.com/2CFDK8O)
Hello! 15 y/o male and im not sure if i should or not bulk, i feel like if i cut ill be too small, while i want to be big but i feel if i bulk ill get fat/overweight (been there)

Here is how i look, if anyone could help itll be a great help! https://imgur.com/a/87wpCDC

Edit: i started weightlifting around a month ago, so im still a beginner
22M, 158, 5’8.

PPL program. On month 4. Was late to start deadlifting.

I think the numbers should reflect 1RM, but here’s my 3x12 (deadlift & squat is 3x5)

Bench: 70
OHP: 15
RDL: 50
Deadlift: 120
Squat: 140

https://imgur.com/a/ZXTX6Kp
[5’8”, 16. Not sure about weight, I’d guess around 120lbs. General feedback I guess, thanks](https://imgur.com/a/HSwkb4C).

Maybe a BF estimate as well?
[weak points? ](https://imgur.com/a/V4X8LGF)
Reposting this because I was late to last Fridays thread.
About 5 months ago I was incredibly unhappy with my body/health so I decided to do something about it.

25/5'5/177lbs to 145lbs https://imgur.com/HxHnSj7.jpg https://imgur.com/LELum5J.jpg https://imgur.com/vwdQPnB.jpg
https://imgur.com/xAisR15.jpg

These pics are about 4 months apart, if you ever think you can't do it, I promise you can.
[M 172cm/68kg](https://imgur.com/a/P2t0pyp) currently on a cut hoping to reach 15% bf. This is my progress in 1 month. What is my bf now, and how long do you
reckon I have left to reach my goal?
Hey all, looking for a body fat estimate. I don’t have access to any good tools for doing so, so I’m interested in hearing what it looks like. I was told at a recent
checkup that I’m quite overweight with a BMI of 29(!). That was a few months ago so I’ve lost a few kilograms since then.

I’m 185cm and 96.5kg/6’1 and 212lbs.

I don’t know how to flex, but this was last week after a shower:
https://imgur.com/a/qUmXTZq

And here’s some progress pics from before and during the cut, at about 10kg heavier:

https://imgur.com/a/gzKojf6
Should I continue my cut or am I getting too small and I should be focusing on building muscle and size? I feel like I should keep cutting because I don’t wanna
have to cut extra next time when I finish lean bulking, but I also feel a little small.

In these pics I’m 5’11 173 but some are different lighting if that helps.

https://imgur.com/a/SRjVUr7
[M/5'9/36](https://i.imgur.com/piLICPk.jpg)

Ending my 7 week cut. Still not counting calories or weighing myself. Time to gain, because being small sucks.
M, 22, 5'8", 170lbs

[Flexed, no pump](https://imgur.com/a/fA5rFj6)

[1 month ago, pre-gym](https://imgur.com/a/E4x2yVk)

Back in the gym for three weeks now after a year of mainly calisthenics since covid dropped. Bf estimate?
So this is me 25M 176cm (5'9) 3 years ago at 91kg, 0 training experience https://imgur.com/jDJvTKe



I basically stayed like that for a very long time. I lost weight, did some bodyweight fitness in the past on and off and made insignificant gains. Beginning of August I
took it seriously. This was my starting point at 82kg.



https://imgur.com/a/9kPxt7T



This is me today at 90kg after 2 months of training https://imgur.com/a/MVv0a7v



... I gained some fat obviously, but jumping back to 90kg was not expected... I did make some gains right?
M29 6'2 190--> 195 lbs http://imgur.com/a/Wa86my1

My bulking progress in 1 month after not lifting for a year. Looks like muscle memory has kicked in and I'm very happy with my progress so far.
[deleted]
F18,110 lbs(50kg) ,5'3(1.6m), body fat estimation ? [pic](https://imgur.com/a/j2jmIm0)
[deleted]
[progress sep 2021](https://imgur.com/a/pZ3Rw8D)

Just curious what folks have to say. I’ve been at this for about 15 years. Natty, 6’, 208 pounds, usually hover between 10-12%BF. clean diet and limited alcohol
intake. Focus has been a combination of powerlifting and bodybuilding. What can I do better?
Male, 150 lbs. soaking wet:
https://imgur.com/a/ZfBVSIy
Mild gyno. I don't think it's too bad. Thoughts?

Also, the only place I can feel a pump is in my calves, is this normal? I don't work in high rep ranges and have long rest intervals.

Also, any thoughts on: knocked knees, rolled forward shoulders and oblique development?
Physique update: 156 lbs. Took a few weeks ago at the beginning of the bulk. Won't look this good again until maybe the summer. Maybe never again. Stay in the
iron game folks:
https://imgur.com/EZYjXgD
do you happen to be a Phan of Phish?
*Friday
Fawking shredded bro. Chest and abs look really good. I’m sitting right around the same weight as you at 5’9” and have larger shoulders and arms than you but
your chest is admirable. Keep it up! I’d say lean bulk to 170-175. My target weight is 175 for the end of the year
We got similar measurables but I look a lot more bulky than I do shredded, you legit have my goal bod, but I feel like I'm already on the light side for my weight that
I'm afraid to cut right now til I gain a little more mass
Looking great man. We have similar stats. How do you get your abs to look like that? I don't mean exercises but how do you flex them? I can't get my abs to look
that way unless I cough or do a fake laugh, which is impossible to hold.

I don't have much feedback, your proportions look good. Eat lots of whole foods and clean bulk over the winter. It may be the angle but I would focus on lats to
improve overall thickness and v-taper. Cheers!
How do you feel about your physique? This sub is great, but r/xxfitness might be even more helpful for you.
I want to second the other person on saying how \*you\* feel about your physique is far more important than what us rando redditors think. BF not super high
obviously. If you want a more reliable BF estimate to track progress over time, a lot of universities will have a body pod or DEXA whatever it is at their gyms or
through their physical training programs and that kinda thing. Worth it to check out.

I think you look great, and your core is absolutely killin' it! And so are your calves, lol! You didn't really mention if you've been lifting or more cardio focused, or what
your goals are but if there were anything to focus on I'd say upper body I guess? Although again, I want to stress I am not saying anything is wrong with your upper
body at all!
You look the type of person who enjoys cardio
You're as lean if not leaner than peaked middle to long distance track and field athletes, and without much muscle. That's not really sustainable. You should
probably get up to at least a few pounds more for health reasons.

That said you have a great base to smartly bulk for a long while and make great gains.
Love the beetle tattoo!

My only suggestion would be incorporating more upper back stuff into your routine if you don't already. Pullups, deadlifts, t-bar rows, that sort of stuff. I think the
look that a broader back can bring can't be understated, not just because it makes you look bigger but also because your shoulders look that much better from
behind.
What u/PlanetExperience said, and never forget the power of thick quads. Think Lean Beef Patty-esque
What routine do you follow?
Whats your experience been like on a bulk? Fellow female here and I've found the mental aspect of gaining hard
if you decide powerlifting is no longer for you, classic physique is calling with a waist that small.
youre shredded af bro congrats, train more core and abs maybe
You look great, the upward camera angle makes it look like you have negative amounts of traps though haha
Grow bigger BOOBA
Wow, great physique, how long have you been working out?
Body goals!!
You look absolutely chiseled and at most like 8% bf.
To improve I'd carry on doing what you're doing. Your thighs are bigger and your waist is tighter; you look fantastic.
Yes you can see some progress but body recomp is slow. Your calories also seem quite low to me, for building muscle.
I would boost the amount of protein you're consuming. 80-90g a day if you can, regardless if you decide to cut or bulk or continue on your recomp! Also there are
definitely visible gainz, your legs look a lot stronger! Nice job!
Don’t be discouraged! Your waist is definitely smaller and your legs look more muscular.


If you can keep adding weight then you’re doing well. Make sure to get enough protein.
I'm say you want to cut to show off your gains. I know girls always train their booty maybe take some side on shots so you can evaluate that at the next 6 month
window
Great job! If strength is your goal, you might need to eat a bit more to build muscle since you're already lean. I don't think you'll gain much muscle at this point while
in deficit
Reverse diet and recomp or do a lean bulk. You aren't going to effectively progressively overload if you continue eating in a calorie deficit.
You do not really have a specific weak point imo. You could aim for a little less BF to get some more ab definition and continue slow bulking from there. But if you
do not care about that just follow a solid program and include incline presses for well rounded pecs.
Really good body, give yourself permission to do a bit more core work if you are still bulking and maybe up the cardio for vascularity . But you have a fucking bicep
vein and I weigh 156.6 pounds at 5'11" so why listen to me?

Curious, what do you do for obliques and serratus?
I would say a weak point is calves
Pretty rad physique that you've maintained sans any workout regiment!

I would imagine that your legs require work the most, your upper body is looking good. I don't know about surfing, but weighted calf raises and lots of lunges
alongside moderate squats has made skiing way easier for me.
Dude, for not lifting since quarantine you look great. But you should still get back in the gym...the waves will still be there when you're done!!
Looking good dude. Those peck came out of nowhere in the after pic lol (compared to the first pic).
Hero transformation. My buddies up above 260 and I keep telling him if he stops with the recomp mindset he could make good progress on Stronglifts to start out.

Don't starve away your gains going under 12% bodyfat, just my thoughts but if you want to get to 195 for the bicep vein, you do you.
Definitely lean bulk.
Amazing progress dude! Suggestion: post your beginning pictures first!
Haha I never look as good at home as in the dressing room mirrors. But yes your back looks strong!

My advice is don't overdo it. Just eat an extra bowl of pasta or ask your mum to make some extra dinner. Eating junk and simple carbs won't give you good results.
It'll just make you fat.
"Sees your fucking massive back and arms" Yep you definitely did a fuck ton of pull ups. That exercise has always been my favorite for back.
270x5 OHP? Holy shit man.
You are blessed with great skin at 41. Health and wellness really pays off.

What's your athletic background? Wondering if cardio from soccer would help my gains.
Quads lookin SICK bro
I wouldn’t bother cutting right now. You don’t really have much fat and I think gaining muscle would make you look better than losing fat at this point. If you’re in a
deficit right now, then eat at maintenance or slightly above for a while and start trying to put on muscle for as long as you can until you gain more fat than you are
comfortable with holding
You look very lean. If you want absolute trackable numbers I would get a bod pod or dexa scan. If I were you I would definitely start working out rather than
continuing to cut
What does your diet look like? Looking at your pictures first that is the first thing that I thought of, that your diet isn’t locked in, so it was good to see you call that out
yourself.

Is your goal still to lose belly fat? If so, you should keep cutting to achieve that and then do a “lean bulk” once you have. I’d be curious how much cardio you do as
well.

I’d focus on getting your diet right as priority number one as that is going to be applicable to any goal you have. Then, if you are trying to lose that belly fat, I’d up
your cardio game without ignoring weight training. Do that until you lose the fat (increasing the calorie deficit until you’re seeing noticeable changes and then
stopping) and then revert to a minimal calorie surplus - this time with your diet in check.
9% body fat? Bro how high are you right now?

Get a dxa scan or something. You're not single digits.
Congrats. Looks great. I am going to have to agree that you don't look like 9%BF though.
Arms looks massive with a pump! Surprised you still can see your abs at 218 lbs…not that it matters but are you natty?
You could definitely be 10% right now. Get a bod pod done if you can
Normally I'd say that it's probably nothing, but considering the history of pain/discomfort, it might actually be worth a trip to a doctors for some imaging if your
insurance would allow for something along those lines. Ounce of prevention, pound of cure and all that.
Guarantee that if you clean up that diet, you'll look even better for a lot longer. You look like you very much know what you're doing in the gym, no comment other
than keep up the killer work.

Assuming you have the option to of course, getting adequate nutrition in college can be rough for sure.
Get off the creatine and go natural
At least at the first picture: Looks to me like your shoulders are too far in the front. Shouldn't they be more behind? Maybe too much benching made your chest too
strong. Maybe, it's the angle in the photo and I'm a noob.
Manz seriously wearing a cheeta shirt.
Your back looks really good. Your arms are also alright. Work on abs and chest.
you've got really good natural symmetry with your muscle insertions and attachments. you're evenly developed all over, nothing stands out as weak, well done.
Overall you have a very solid physique. At this point simply getting stronger/bigger and maintaining is about you need to do. Congrats, you’ve won at life.
Overall you look amazing, if I had to pick anything I'd say obliques seem a tad smaller compared to everything else, but could just be me.
Fantstic work man! What has your regimen been like?
[removed]
hit more chest bro
You got a lot of muscle to build up. Just stay focused.
I’m your height but 178lb lol I’ve cut from 195 this year and have been as heavy as 240. My abs finally show so starting next month my lean bulk begins and my goal
is to be your weight wishing 2 years
Hit quads and chest hard, it will completely change how your body looks IMO even if you don't put on more muscle anywhere else
I think cutting would serve you very well
The only thing that I would critique is the location. It's toxic! The insulation on the ceiling is exposed and the stains on the walls indicate mold.

Physique is on point though.
A cut would be easy (you look around 17%) to get to 13-15% would be around 10lb cut.

Could probably maintain/go up in your lifts too with noobgainz/recomp as your friend.
Time for a bulk friend. Enjoy the rice.
Bulk it up, bud. What are your lifts?
what was the timeframe on this? was you lifting in the before picture?

I would lean bulk personally from where you are at in the after.
Appreciate the “older” inspiration dude, about to turn the big 4-0 and this gives me hope that I’ve got a long journey yet.
Honestly, I posit that TRT is still being natty. You're not raising your test levels so that you can enhance your performance, you're bringing it up to what it should be.
Amazing work, TRT or not.
Looking good dude. Nice spinal erectors
You are not 6'4" at 173 pounds. If you are, congrats. Mirin'
You have no muscle to cut down to. Start a slow bulk.
Bulk now. If you want a better physique, you need a hell of a lot more muscle.
You probably wont ever look truly lean until you get the extra skin removed, but you still have some weight to lose to be lean. Id say go down to 140 or 135 before a
bulk, youre 5'7" so that wouldnt be a bad weight to be at.
Great body. Look into reverse dieting. You made it already, but staying in the iron game keeps you sharp.
I'd keep cutting down to 180ish and then bulk back up to 195 or so.

Your lifts are pretty solid, but they could easily be a little bit higher at your size so I don't think you'll have an issue continuing to make progress while cutting.

And I don't think your pecs are lagging that much, and your bench number is in line with your squat and deadlift.
Looks like a posture thing. Try some stretches and rolling tight spots!
Let’s see from the front. It might be posture or an imbalance
How is your calisthenics? are you doing rows together with pull ups? and doing some form of overhead pressing? (pike or handstand pushups or dumbbells) you
must make sure your routine is balanced in all planes of motion.
Bf scales aren’t the most accurate but why not cut? You have weight to lose, so if you want to do it epically it’s you want to see more definition with the gains you’ve
made
The scale is useless. Get a dxa scan. You look to be closer to 20%.
Pretty good physique for 18 months. Got a chance to bulk up this winter. Eat a ton of lean protein, don’t skimp on carbs and fats, and lift heavy for fewer reps this
winter. And obviously lift consistently!
You look good, I wouldn't necessarily bulk, but I'd say focus hard on your upper body. Chest, shoulders, and maybe arms (can't really tell from the pic) You have
well proportioned legs which is a plus. Bad legs aren't an easy fix. You have a good core as well. I'd work on that and maybe do a small cut in the spring. Your build
has a lot of potential.
Great arms and core, nice lean aesthetic build. You would look great at 170-180 maintaining the same bf. You would really need to work in a good consistent diet to
get there, especially if you are a hard gainer.
You look great, also wow...I was 6’1 and 160 (so nearly identical proportions) when I was running marathons competitively and looked absolutely nothing like that.
Not that I had much fat, either. I suppose I carried a bit more weight in my legs. Amazing how different the same numbers can look on different folks.
Compound movements and protein. Use a program with a spreadsheet to have a good progressive overload
As long as you're following a good program (see wiki if not) and eating enough you'll make great progress, given that you're starting from a strong baseline here
Careful with eating too much junk on your bulk, you're very close to flabby here. Recomp would be smarter, but take longer. Good luck
Hey, congrats on loosing almost 40kg that mad impressive. If I were you I would try and lean bulk and get a bit more muscle in your frame.
There may still be some fat, but if I were you I would bulk again. Otherwise you will be skinny if you keep losing weight, as there is not much muscle
It looks like you are putting on a decent amount of muscle, so keep going!

Can't really judge specific muscles since your bodyfat % is rather high. Once you cut, you'll be able to see what your strengths and weeknesses are.
Have you ever tried working out your pec minor? Might help fill out your lower chest.
Bulking directly to 200 lbs would lead to you having a ton of fat.

A good recommendation for a bulk is to gain between 0.25 to 0.5 % bodyweight per week. Even using the upper end value of 0.5% per week, it would take you over
7 months to reach 200. At a slower rate it would take over 1 year.

I would recommend bulking for 2-4 months before cutting. Doing say you would gain around 10 lbs. Then cut. Then repeat.
If you just stared lifting a month ago then you should be bulking. It will be easy gains.
You're a teen, you shouldn't cut. Just go on a small surplus. Whole foods are best because they're really filling.
Honestly, don't even worry about a small surplus. At your age you will build muscle so fast if you work out. Just eat healthy and eat a lot.
Bulk. Just lift weights and eat a lot. You don’t necessarily need to get fat. You’re very skinny right now
You just got the skinny fat gamer body rn which definitely puts u in a hard position, id recommend just eating well and working out. When youre new youll make
gains no matter what youre doing. Dont worry about bulking and cutting until later when you have diet + training down.
are you doing de reddit ppl?
I'd say chest and delts. I definitely recommend chest flies, either with dumbbells or machine. Incline chest press will be great too, I find it much more beneficial then
flat bench

Shoulders can handle a lot of volume, so maybe try upping your reps.
Lookin sexy my guy

No homo
What’s your chest routine?
Fantastic! I've started my fitness routine a month ago. The progress is slow but I'm not giving up yet!
Damn, what was your routine/diet like? Thats mad impressive
Probably around 20% would be my guess.

How long it will take to get to 15% depends almost entirely on your current workout and dietary habits.
21-24% probably
I would start a lean bulk
Looking really solid!

Any cutting tips? Did you drop volume / strength?
Lookin good, I'd put you around 14%
What program did you follow? I can't tell if you gained muscle with how much fat you're carrying. If you did workout consistently you'll definitely have more muscle
when you cut. 8kg in 2 months is quite on aggressive bulk. Probably aim for around half that.
Link not working
Link doesn't work for me.
Body fat estimate: very low.

If you are looking to have a leaner and more muscular physique a bulk is in order because you need to gain muscle.
wouldn't be possible to tell with a pic like that. less than 25% is about all someone could say.
Hard to tell your bf% but you are already close to an underweight BMI, I would recommend not trying to lose more weight.
You post about losing weight.

Do not do that. You're already small
[removed]
20-25% ish
I would cut if I were you until lose a lot of that bad fat and then start bulking
It's basically impossible to guess bf level from a picture, but I guess like 15-20%
Wow. Interesting tattoos, too.
I don’t see any gyno just lack of development. Posture seems decent enough I’d just keep working on it, especially your chest and shoulders. Bench presses and
push-ups are your friend. Keep it up
What gyno are you talking about?
Banded face pulls. Twist your knees out with intent when squatting
Thanks bro, appreciate it. What is your strategy for adding that weight? I imagine a bit of a “dirty bulk” as that seems like a good amount of weight in that timeframe!
Always strange when people mention my body being goals because I can’t help but to see all the areas I’m lacking in but appreciate the compliment!

Curious, how many calories do you eat daily? And do you know your BF?
!!! I didn't even know that was a sub. I'm gonna check it out thank you!
Thanks!

Oh they’re definitely a weak point for me from any angle lol. Gonna hit them hard next bulk.
thx for the advice :)
Hey thx for the reply! I am currently trying to do more core. For obliques and core I only do plank and side plank (4sets of 1min, I know that it's not much). For the
bicep vein I honestly think it's genetics, I always had a vein on my arm even before I started lifting.
>uesrmnae

Bro that's soo true without socks they look like sticks. I always do some kind of calves exercices but due to genetics my wrists and calves are really small
I realized after that I messed up the imgur post lol but thank you so much!!
Haha right? I want whatever special mirror they have in dressing rooms at my home lol and thank you!!
Somehow I think that’s supposed to be 170. If not, I’d like to see a video of that
Whoops, that should be a 1, not a 2!
Thanks man, I never considered my skin to be one of my assets, lol!

I have no athletic background. I didn't play any sports as a kid in high school or college. I did ski when I was a teenager and played outside a lot, but children in the
80's and 90's seemed to be generally more active than many kids these days.

In my early 30's I started to see the dreaded dad bod/skinny fat thing starting and it freaked me out. I decided to start working out and never stopped since. It's
definitely changed my life for the better.

Generally it is advised to avoid a lot of cardio when gaining muscle. Anecdotally, I agree. I don't do much cardio and never did over my big gain years. I'm still
making slow progress but am more maintaining now than anything.
Thanks dude. I had a hard leg day yesterday and have a solid pump going on still.
Thanks, that's what I was thinking too. I guess I'll just bulk until next summer, when abs matter more hah
Thanks for the input!
I'm currently at around 1750 calories/day with average of 95g proteins, 160g carbs but 75/80g of fat. Very low on sugars since I don't snack, drink sugary stuff,... I
was a heavy carbs eater and had to cut out a lot of carbs, mainly bread, which I think I replaced with fat (and protein). The problem is that I don't really decide what
to eat for lunch/dinner, and while we eat fresh foods at home it's also made with lots of fat.

I walk quite a lot but don't really do any cardio. Do you think that plays a role? Everyone has been saying that cardio doesn't really matter, but I imagine that for fat
loss it does?

My goal isn't really to lose the belly fat since summer is over. If I can "hide" the excess fat by being bigger that's fine too, I don't need the abs. Thanks for the help !!
hey; I don't know what to tell you. Been using calipers at home and at the gym for a few years and the results follow my waist line. [Here's today's measurement.]
(https://imgur.com/a/Zp7LVwx) Maybe I'm doing it wrong. Even if I'm wrong by a mm or 2, I'm still below 10% according to the calliper table. I'd say it must be the
lighting but that would sound desperate. Anyway, thanks for the feedback.
I took anavar (6 weeks 25-50mg/day)and testosterone cyponiate(300mg/wk) for about 8 weeks. First cycle ever. Put on 26lbs of lean body mass(dxa scan) and lost
18lbs of fat in 2 months. About 8lbs of the mass or so was water. You gain like 10lbs in a couple days after first injection. This water weight dissapears about 3
weeks to 1 month after last injection. Which is why I'm basically back at my starting weight but with more muscle.
10% without a road map of veins and abs? #doubt
I’d argue that creatine is natural, it’s a supplement just like protein.
You’re right, his back or posture isn’t straight.should work on that
Yeah i see it too, could be the posture in the particular picture, but also i do bench 4x/week so maybe i should work and that
Yes i am, what about it?
Following fundamentals of hypertrophy program upper/lower template along with hitting my protein target. I've been doing a subpar job at consuming my cutting
calories, been hitting over instead because I'm still stumbling on managing my hunger levels. I am aware I should be focusing on going for a surplus to pack more
size but I'm fine with doing "recomp" just a bit longer because I am still progressing in my lifts
[deleted]
I feel like you may have accidentally replied to the wrong person here!
[deleted]
Should also hit legs lol
Thank you. I've followed several programs (Juggernaut 2.0, Nsun's 5/3/1, and currently John Meadow's Creeping Death II)... Need to keep grinding.
I definitely need to cut to 190. The weekends kill me (just need to stay consistent). I've certainly been out- eating my cardio.
Thank you.Started John Meadow's Creeping Death II a few weeks ago. Along with a cut, I'll add the extra day of legs to improve.
Agreed. Difficult to figure out calories burned doing cardio (Peloton and rucking are my main forms). I ran for a while, but the mindset that running was "killing my
gains" was constantly in my head.
Bench: 235
Squat: 335
Deadlift: 365
Still coming up too, just slowly.
I was lifting in the before, but as you could tell, my nutrition was shit. As for the timeframe, it took me about 11 months. I wanted to take it slow to preserve as much
strength as I could. My lifts increased a bit too which was nice.
I hear that and pretty much agree. I just mention it to be transparent. It certainly added to my physique. It's just good to be honest so people have realistic
expectations and you put it all out on the table.
Maybe closer to 180? I have gained weight but not muscle it feels like in some areas and I don’t have a scale
Hey man thanks for the tip. I found a yt video of Dr. Rowe. Hope this helps me out. Cheers.
https://imgur.com/a/HoWm4iQi my relax form and off days physic. Is it posture or imbalance?
5x3 pull ups, 12x3 rows (acute angle) but no overhead pressing. I am thinking doing some isolation exercise to cope up with this, but yes, overhead dumbbells is a
good suggestion.
I initially wanted to reach 80 kg(176lbs) before cutting, thats what made me hesitate with this decision to start cutting earlier.
They seem to be quite expensive in my area (equivalent of 215 usd that i have to pay out of my own pocket). Think i'll just cut anyway
thanks for the tips man, ill definitely try these things out and see how they work for me
Thanks bro! Yeah the diet is definitely what gets me, I’m always on the road so trying to fit in healthy meals is pretty tricky
Hey thanks man! Yeah that was tough.
I'm trying to do that right now too. I'm not keen to bulk then cut back, want to lose fat and gain muscle at same time which won't be easy but that's the goal. Any
specific areas I should focus on?
I'm following a routine that will allow me to gain muscle and lose fat. So basically I hit my protein goals but same time drop calories below maintenance and follow
my upper/lower workout routine. I am seeing some promising results in muscle gains since I started this routine 3 months back but my fat has gotten stubborn.
Thanks for responding as it's very helpful. So would you recommend I continue to bulk until the end of the year and then do a cut?
Alright, i also have a question. If i cannot really count calories then what should i do? Just eat a bit more than im eating right now?
Are you not?
Be careful with chest flies, as they can be terrible for your shoulders. I highly recommend hitting dumbbell presses, both flat and incline, hard, multiple times a week.
Thanks homes
Usually bench, then machines/cables etc. It’s imo been my biggest weak point since I started lifting. I’ve never done flies consistently so thats something I’m
incorporating more. I struggle with MMC on almost every press
Thank you! Keep it up you will get there in no time. Rome wasn't built in a day, just stay focused on your goals and you will see results!
I didn't follow anything specific. The first 2 months I did a lot of cardio, 2-3 miles in the morning then I'd lift at night 5-6 days a week. I still train the same minus the
cardio. The biggest difference I'd say is the food, I didn't follow a specific diet but I did eat only about 1600 calories a day mostly protein, high volume low calorie
food.
Work out 3-4 times a week, keeping 500kcal below tdee on average.
You’ve made me very happy, thank you!
I guess maybe I should I’ve already lost 30lbs, anyways a break from cutting would be nice even if I don’t have visible abs. At least I’ll have more muscle next time I
cut down and it’ll probably look better.
Thank you for the advice.
Thanks man!

Strength is up. During fat loss phases, I reduce volume and up training intensity, so I went from following Deep Water to doing 5/3/1 with 5s progression for the
mainlifts and widowmaker FSL sets for supplemental work. I ate the same foods I was eating while gaining: just less of it.
Hey thank you for the feedback really appreciate it.

I am at awe that I got back to 90kg. I didn't expect it either.

I am doing PHAT by Layne Norton, religiously so. Tracking my weights and reps and consistently but slowly progressing. Every month I would overtrain then deload
for 4-5 days, then get back to slowly and consistently progressing.

Last month, I got stuck at 86kg. But this month, I just felt ravenous the entire time, my appetite quadrupled for some reason and I am hungry the entire time. So I
find myself eating all the time. I really don't know what to do next because this hunger is killing me, especially on workout days.
Could also go the toning route.
I don't really want to lose weight i want to tone so that means losing fat
Thanks. That's what I thought too.
Yeah I'm thinking of cutting to 150 probably.
Does bench help with serratus?
Above the right pec where below where it inserts, the chest is breast-like there. Still is to this day.
Thank you, I stopped doing face pulls because compounds are just more fun, but I should probably start doing wide-grip pull-up negatives again.
Haha it was indeed a typo that I just fixed!! I do have video of me doing 190 on my overhead for 1 rep though.
For sure, but I was hoping for the return of the legendary more-than-bench OHPer.
Great job on the consistency. I'm not hating just sharing my experience with BF numbers and dxa scans.

Which are only like $40-50 at bodyspec BTW. Bodyspec.com
You could definitely be single digits. Most people in these reference photos are hella pumped, or never got a scan to begin with. [Just look at these dudes at 7-10%
and how different they look in the doctor's office vs in their own videos](https://youtu.be/mrllUxAr1_g?t=182)
Thanks for the honesty! Keep up the great work!
Yeah, 10% might be too low to achieve actually. I'm thinking I'm probably around 15% right now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mrllUxAr1_g&t=182s

Really, I don't doubt it. Almost none of these guys match the meme "reference" pictures you see online. Genetics, pump workouts, filters, juice, etc. really twist the
way people show up on social media.
Thanks for sharing, all the best!
lol yeah where did that come from. Anyway I'm jealous of your physique
bench press is great of course but its not enough if you dont do any flies or something else. im not a pro but you should have at least 20-25 sets of chest exercises
in a week. flies dips incline press etc...
I just don’t feel strong. I’ve been cutting since January and feel it’s time to focus on strength and maintain my body fat percentage. Slow weight gain and strength
gain is my goal!
Those are insane numbers at your bodyweight... I've got the same bench and slightly lower squat/DL at 177!

You honestly might want to look into competing.... but I know nothing about that. I just know your numbers at your age/weight are in the advanced class.
It's all good, weight tracking isn't for everyone. And you probably are done with the bulk/cut bullshit at this weight so I say look into L-sits.
Not very relaxed if you’re so flexed that your hands are fists. But it seems that you have bad posture
Have you been thinking about getting rings? they're great and you can train your entire upper body and isolate. you also HAVE to do rear delt work (face pulls
bands or rings)
It’s ok to change goals as time goes on! Being flexible with your regime is key to longevity. If you’re feeling like you’re getting fat, muscle gain as the priority aside
for a month. You could cut 4lbs of fat in a month (with proper nutrition and resistance training) and then see how you’re feeling. If you like how that looks you’ll be
feeling a lot better about yourself sooner rather than later. And if you know you’re gonna cut eventually and you’re not training for anything specific I think feeling
better about yourself should be priority one.
It's only $40-50 usd here. Still, it's worth it to know your true body fat

My dxa:13.2% body 229lbs

My scale:28% body fat 230lbs
I understand what you are trying to do. I’m just saying, in my opinion you will be skinny if you cut even more. A lean-ish bulk will have you grow and you can follow
that up with a (mini) cut
Sure, that sounds reasonable. Getting to 200 lbs may take a few cycles, but if you are patient and consistent you can get there.
If you can't count calories, do your best to at least roughly get enough protein in. Typical recommendation is your bodyweight \* 0.82g = Goal protein consumption.
Weigh yourself every other day or so and if you're gradually increasing, you're good. If you aren't, tend to eat a little more. You'll have normal weight fluctuations but
the trend upward should be clear. Enjoy and don't be afraid to ask people for help or advice! Most people love to help new people
If can absolutely not track your calories then yes. You dont want to go crazy on eating more but it should be enough to gain weight
Just eat a bit more overall, and make sure you're getting a good amount of protein (100+ gram). That means eating meat/dairy/eggs.

If you can afford it, [grab a box of protein bars](https://www.amazon.com/Pure-Protein-Healthy-Support-Chocolate/dp/B00MNXGSAI/ref=sxts_rp_s2_0?
cv_ct_cx=protein+bars&dchild=1&keywords=protein+bars&pd_rd_i=B00MNXGSAI&pd_rd_r=0089b48f-c923-4293-bd36-
ab4ebc07c14a&pd_rd_w=PObko&pd_rd_wg=MNEoZ&pf_rd_p=c0fa563a-b0ba-455a-bd65-
7b14bea6288c&pf_rd_r=BSKMSG5E0HJGQFBMAGCF&psc=1&qid=1632496777&sr=1-2-f0029781-b79b-4b60-9cb0-eeda4dea34d6) and eat one daily too to help,
that'll give you a nice boost of 200 calories and 20 grams
Absolutely be careful with shoulder flies, I would always recommend a lighter weight with a strong focus on correct form and a strong contraction at the top.
How many reps/sets on different lifts?
Keep those shoulders depressed. On bench likely bring your elbows towards your body more if you tend to feel your front delts doing a lot of work. Should be
around 45 degrees.

One thing that helps me the most is moving the weight mentally with my elbows, not my hands. Focus on the movement of the upper arm. Don't bring the weight
above your shoulders or head because then you're just turning it into a lying shoulder press basically. Keep the weight above the chest.
Thanks, my target is 5 months of regular workouts atleast, hopefully by then I'll have a better physique and it'll motivate me to keep prodding.
Cut those calories down to 800 below maint and you'll be there in 3 weeks. Probably a month and change otherwise. If you're down to try IF (intermittent fasting), I
highly recommend it for both cutting body fat and keeping it off long term.
Yeah based on the video I would have said 22% but based on the photos I'd say closer to 24-25%. You have a lot of muscle mass so you look leaner.

Cut 20lb (2.5months) and you're good to bulk again (\~15%)
100% start a lean bulk. \~250kcal surplus.
Thanks for an answer I can work with. PHAT is great. I have faith that you have gained muscle. That leaves on last culprit. Diet.

When is the last time you ate vegetables at in at least 3 different times in the day? How often do you eat leafy greens? When you snack is it frequently high calorie
fatty/sugary foods?
Idk if you’re joking or not.

Whatever you want to call it, a bulk, a recomp, a lean gain, “toning”, she needs to eat in a mild caloric surplus and lift weights in order to gain some muscle.
You're pretty covered up in the picture but right now it looks as if you are well within healthy range but very slender.

A caloric defiicit is just going to make you look even skinnier, and if done too obsessively will cost you what little muscle you have and could be psychologically or
even physically harmful, depending on how far you go.

I agreee with literally everyone else in this thread, what would make sense if you want to change for the better would be to gain muscle. There is no need for severe
fat gain, just eat a very mild surplus and do strength training.
You don't need to lose fat lol, just eat at a slight surplus or at breakeven and exercise if you want to gain a bit of muscle or "tone" even though it's kind of a
nonsense term

Also when you wear all black and cover everything up it's impossible to tell your bodyfat%
Tone requires muscle. Build muscle, then you'll be able to tone.
OHP and dips do. Generally the more vertical your pressing (regardless of whether up or down), the more the serratus is activated.
Good idea! Never did one and it sounds affordable. Worth it I think....! Cheers.
I have posted photos of my body at 22% and 13% dxa scanned.

At 13% veins are visible all over my body, and my ab detail is insane.

His shoulders would be cut out at 10% as would his obliques.
Thanks! I would be lying if I said I haven’t gone on the strength standards website and compared my numbers haha. I’ve never really thought of competing but I bet
there are a few powerlifting leagues in my area. I just haven’t really looked. Might be something I’ll have to take a look at.
I figured it was my bad mind to muscle connection and uneven pull up bar. Also, u/DeGedlheart is right. I don't do enough stretching.
Not yet, definitely wanted the rings!
Yeah to be honest out of all my pictures I took since I decided to get back in shape in 2017 are the ones where I was the leanest. [This one from May 2020] when I
was at my lowest weight (68kg/149 lbs) is the one where I like the way I look the most despite looking skinny.

You reinforced my idea that cutting was the right move, thank you.
Oh damn that's quite a difference. I'll see if there are other offers that are cheaper but a quick google search only gave me a few results with Dxa scans in
Switzerland and they're all around that price tag.

I assume I should just cut until I can see abs ? Assuming they can be seen at all. I'm a bit worried about dropping to very low weight for my height, though. I was
previously 68kg (149 lbs) and still nowhere close to seeing abs.
So what are the downsides of going with a cut (as current) and then a mini bulk if I am too skinny? As opposed to the other way
I honestly just picked 200 because I look so skinny that I thought 200 pounds would make me look a lot more muscular after cutting. But after seeing people here
that look very muscular at weights like 170 pounds, I realize that that may not be the case.

If I follow this plan to bulk up until the end of the year, cut, and then achieve the look I want, I will probably just stick with that and keep maintaining it. I don't
necessarily want to get extremely big.
Thanks man!!!
Alright thanks!
Usually 3-4 exercises, lately I’ve been in the 12-15 rep range because historically I’ve always stayed in the 5-8 rep range with little results. And typically 10 working
sets, every 4-5 days because I can’t recover before then.
Second this. A lot of guys think bench is so straightforward that their form doesn’t matter, but you actually have to be very careful about letting your shoulders do
the work. Took me 3 years of spinning my wheels at a 205 max to figure this out.
I have been playing around with this, too. Cutting calories and reducing weight too quickly may risk loosing muscle mass though, right?

&#x200B;

Im aim to reduce my BW by 1% each week until I reach my target BF%. Any faster than this and I feel like it'll be compromised.
Hey, thanks!! The pics are all a few months old (March to June); I was a few kg heavier then so what you’re saying for sure checks out. I’m kicking around the idea
of starting another cut and trying to do nutrition better this time instead of just eating as little as I can stand and hoping things work out; losing strength was really
annoying and my squat is still currently blowing up.

I’m probably going to join the “1000lb club”, and then once done, start my next cut. Thank you for your feedback!
Thank you for the advice, I started lean bulking this week. I bumped up my calories by 200, I’m looking forward to getting stronger and packing on more muscle
now, abs can wait lol.
>PHAT is great.

Omg, tell me about. I never felt more alive hitting the gym. There was a typo in my comment, at the end of every month\* I would overtrain (i.e advance in weight
more than the usual 1-2.5kg and go to failure). It worked wonders.

And to answer your questions

>When is the last time you ate vegetables at in at least 3 different times in the day?

lol like 8 years ago when mom forced me to xD (I'm 25 for reference)

>How often do you eat leafy greens?

Never. I bought these premade salads from Tesco and ate them whenever I was hungry (it was a lot of leafy stuff I don't know what they're called), but they did not
help with the hunger at all :/ as a matter of fact, it made me feel hungrier. I don't understand how people satiate themselves eating leafy vegetables.

>When you snack is it frequently high calorie fatty/sugary foods?

Yes. Usually protein bars and Snickers bars. I drink 0kcal sugar-free iced tea daily too.

My diet is like this, 3 main meals:

1. 3 eggs + kiwis + grapes for breakfast
2. 250g of meat + 100g lentils + 100g potatoes/rice/ whole grain pasta for lunch
3. 250g of meat + green beans + mushrooms for dinner

Snacks in-between and late at night

1. Snickers bars
2. Proteins bars
3. Grapes, berries, kiwis, strawberry. greek yogurt, fermented milk yogurt, apples... and the list goes on, but those even after I eat them, I still feel hungry
4. junk food

I honestly don't know what kind of vegetables to eat. My mom used to make really bad salads and grew up hating veggies. What vegetables do you recommend?

Please recommend me some, and I will start eating them 3 times a day to fight the hunger.
I thought you cant tone on a calorie surplus thats why i am in a calorie deficit
The data is priceless once you have a 2nd scan done


http://imgur.com/a/TQhUPDR

http://imgur.com/a/8PnrzEk

There's even a comparison of the left and right side of my body in size/muscle/and fat. Like left arm vs right, etc
You had just finished an anavar / test cycle though right?
I hope it goes well for you, have a good cut.
The data is priceless once you have a 2nd scan done


http://imgur.com/a/TQhUPDR

http://imgur.com/a/8PnrzEk

There's even a comparison of the left and right side of my body in size/muscle/and fat. Like left arm vs right, etc
You're gonna lose muscle mass as you cut. That's the concerning issue. You could starve yourself down real lean and still have no muscle definition.
No downsides, its your preference and body of course. For myself I think it is more motivating to have something to cut down to
Go start cutting instead of bulking. Nice progress so far, but due to the amount of excess fat you can’t really see the muscle. On top of that, gaining 8KG in two
months clearly means that you’ve eaten way too much. So please, reconsider your current diet and adapt where needed (a.k.a. eating less calories a day). Keep up
the good work bro! :)
I'd say leafy salads are your best best for low calorie filling foods. Your diet is all very calorie dense food, you just need some lettuce, spinach, cucumbers, celery in
there to fill you up.

Peel a dozen carrots on a Sunday, cut them into hot chip size fingers and whenever you snack during the week have a handful of those before you go for
something sweeter.
“Toning” means that your muscle is more defined.

In order for that to happen, you first need muscle. So you need to gain that muscle by being in a moderate calorie surplus.

If you gained muscle right now. Let’s say you go to 115 lbs, and you have more muscle and the same fat (which is already low), then you will be more “toned”.
Depends on the calories you eat. If it’s all fat then that’s not going to help you; but definitely get some extra protein and eat at a slight surplus if you want to tone.
Thanks
I'll talk to my doctor about it to see if there's a way to get one done without spending 200 bucks on it. It'd get super expensive real quick if one of the benefits is
doing multiple scans.
I'll go for a steady cut even if it takes longer, then. I was losing weight at a good pace eating 2000-2100 cal per day, I'll go back to doing that and see how it goes.
Thanks for the advice.

I am reconsidering my eating choices. This is all uncharted territory for me so I'm still discovering my option.

My biggest concern is that if I start cutting, I'll feel tired and lethargic for training and won't be able to advance as fast as I did. To be fair, I don't really mind the extra
fat as long as I'm gaining muscle. My initial plan was to bulk until I bench 80-90kg, but seeing how much fat I gained, I'm reconsidering.

And mind you, by "fast" I don't mean ego lifting and adding +10kg at some point, I mean progressing +1/2.5kg at every exercise every week once I get the rep
ranges and then advance +5kg at the end of every month and go to failure then deload.

Even during the week when I'm advancing regularly, I feel tired and hungry. I'm only wondering how it'll be during s cut.

Hey we won't know until we try, right?

This is gonna be my last week this month which means I'm hitting those PR. Next week I'll include veggies and see how it goes.
Don't think you know what you're talking about tbh. Eating dietary fat doesn't instantly translate to fat on your body. Same for protein, it doesn't just translate into
muscle
It’s all up to you and your goals. If you prefer to hit that PR, sure go for it! However, if you would like to improve your body physique, please reconsider your plan.
Also, it’s much more easy to gain muscle with less stored bodyfat due to [calorie partitioning](https://bodyrecomposition.com/muscle-gain/a-guide-to-calorie-
partitioning). Good luck!

Edit: “The same goes in reverse: naturally lean (but NOT folks who have dieted to lean) individuals tend to gain more muscle and less fat when they overfeed and
fatter individuals tend to gain more fat and less muscle when they overfeed.”
Of course not if you are eating at a deficit you are going to lose weight. And if you aren’t getting enough protein (along with doing strength exercises) you’ll be
loosing muscle. (Along with fat)

And similarly to gain muscle (which is what toning involves) you have to get enough protein. If all you eat is fat you aren’t going to get far in muscle tone. Eating
Guac and French fries would not have a good result.

I was specifically addressing the commenters concern about calorie surplus and tone.
Thank you for the link, that was a great read.

What I can conclude from my short 2 months journey is that whatever I was doing (although questionable) is working. I actually feel awesome. I have never in my
life hit 40kg at bench, and now I did after doing what I've been doing. So that's a really good thing to experience and know.

Please understand that that does not mean I am not going to try. I will try! Who knows? Maybe I will feel even better!
Fair enough, still though, would get away from using the word tone, it's a bit of a nonsense term
 *If you are looking for the announcement thread for the previous month, it may be found* [*here*]
(https://old.reddit.com/r/books/comments/p6m7wa/the_rbooks_book_club_selection_ama_for_september/)*.*

Since the book club traditionally concludes every month with an AMA by the author of the selection, we never really have the opportunity to collectively explore
older works; so during the month of October, we thought we would try something a little different. We will be reading the classic horror novel (and novella)
**Frankenstein; Or, The Modern Prometheus** by Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley & **The Yellow Wallpaper** by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. Each week there will be a
discussion thread and when we are done, we will have an AMA with author and professor of Modern and Contemporary Literature in the Department of English and
Humanities at Birkbeck, University of London - **Roger Luckhurst**. Roger specializes in Victorian literature as well as Gothic & weird fiction and is notable for his
introductions and editorships to the [Oxford World's Classics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_World%27s_Classics) series volumes: **Late Victorian Gothic
Tales***,* **Dracula**, **Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde***,* **The Portrait of a Lady***,* H.P. Lovecraft's **Classic Horror Tales***,* **King Solomon’s
Mines***,* and **The Time Machine** among others. If you ever have had any questions on classic (or contemporary) horror, he is the one to ask.

From the BBC (Frankenstein):

>Frankenstein tells the story of gifted scientist Victor Frankenstein who succeeds in giving life to a being of his own creation. However, this is not the perfect
specimen he imagines that it will be, but rather a hideous creature who is rejected by Victor and mankind in general.

From Goodreads (The Yellow Wallpaper):

>A woman and her husband rent a summer house, but what should be a restful getaway turns into a suffocating psychological battle. This chilling account of
postpartum depression and a husband's controlling behavior in the guise of treatment will leave you breathless.

Since both works are in the public domain, you may find copies of each through Project Gutenberg - [Frankenstein](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/42324) and
[The Yellow Wallpaper](https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/1952). These are the editions referenced for the purpose of dividing the weekly readings though any
edition should be fine.

You may find the dates of, and links to, the discussion threads below in the sticky comment on this post. You are welcome to read at your own pace. Don't worry
about joining later on in the month. Usually it is pretty easy to catch up and you are always welcome to join the discussions a little later.

If you would like to view any past book club selection or want to see how things work, you may find the complete archive [here]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/books/wiki/bookclub).

For those of you that are viewing reddit on the redesigned desktop version you will see an option on this post to 'follow'. If you 'follow' the book club post you will
receive a notification when a new post, a discussion thread for book club, is added to the collection. It is still being tested, so it may not be perfect, but perhaps it
will make it easier to join the discussions when they go up.
Here are the dates and reading schedule for the discussion threads. As the discussion threads go up the links will be added to this comment.

October 8th: Frankenstein Letter I - Chapter VII

October 15th: Frankenstein Chapter VIII - Chapter XVII

October 22nd: Frankenstein Chapter XVIII - Chapter XXIV (end)

October 28th: AMA with Roger Luckhurst

October 29th: The Yellow Wallpaper (whole novella)

Parts are inclusive for the dates so please be aware that the discussion threads will contain spoilers for everything up to the end of the selected chapters.
Those who like Shelly might appreciate knowing that she also wrote a book called, T*he Last Man*. Below is the Wikipedia synopsis:

>The Last Man is an apocalyptic, dystopian science fiction novel by Mary Shelley, first published in 1826. The narrative concerns Europe in the late 21st century,
ravaged by a mysterious pandemic illness that rapidly sweeps across the entire globe, ultimately resulting in the near-extinction of humanity.

Not only is it topical, i.e. being about a mysterious disease ravaging the citizens of the 21st century, but it was also one of the first examples of dystopic fiction.
Oh hell yeah.

I love The Yellow Wallpaper, it’s so good. And I was already planning on re-reading Frankenstein and recommending it to my real life book club. Things are just
breaking my way today.
How exciting!

I don't seem to have much success using project Gutenberg, when it comes to emailing the file to my kindle.

Which version on the Amazon store is most suited. I've done a quick skim through the store and there are many versions that have customer reviews expressing
concerns of the translation being unnatural to read.

Any assistance would be great
Fabulous, I just picked up a copy of Frankenstein after my friend strongly recommended it. Excited for this one!
Awesome! I am currently halfway through Frankenstein.
I haven't read Frankenstein since high school and have never read The Yellow Wallpaper (though I know the plot), so very excited for these books and their spooky
vibes for October!
Try going to Project Gutenberg from your Kindle browser and downloading the kindle version directly. That has worked well for me.
I’m an author and actor-turned-academic. I wrote a novel in college, somehow sold it, then moved to England to get a master’s degree in Shakespeare at King’s
College London and the Globe. Now I’m back in the States, IWWV has been published in seven languages, and is coming out in a special hardback edition next
month from Titan Books. I’m also a PhD candidate writing a dissertation on madness and mood disorder in early modern drama. Bom-bard me with curiosity (ban
puns guaranteed).
Ocular proof: https://www.instagram.com/p/CULaTj6rQ1Q/ and https://twitter.com/SureAsMel/status/1441145538221539330?s=20
Find me on
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/sureasmel/
Twitter: https://twitter.com/SureAsMel
My website: https://mlrio.com/

I have to run, but thanks so much to everyone who participated!
How do you feel about the comparisons being made between If We Were Villains and The Secret History?
Not to be full English lit student on here and look into things too deeply, but why is the sparrow alive on the cover of the new edition of IWWV…not to assume
things of course
Not a question, but I just finished your book literally five minutes ago on the tube. It was incredible. I found it on a random charity shop hunt for £1.99. I will now be
buying the signed version you've been advertising because 1.99 is too much of a steal for a book that good, and I will be returning my copy to a charity shop in the
hopes that someone else stumbles across it and falls in love with it. Thank you for a great read.
Hi M!

I'm a big fan of If We Were Villains! I read it while studying abroad in 2019 and it was one of the most magical reading experiences I've had in the past few years. I
have three questions if that's okay with you!

1. As someone with minimal Shakespeare knowledge (as in I read Julius Caesar, Merchant of Venice, King Henry IV pt. 1 and Hamlet in high school) where do you
recommend I start if I'm looking to get more into his work?
2. Is there any reason in particular that the book is set in 1997? Is it to allow space for the 10 years later or to not have to include cell phones/the internet? Or is
there some bigger cultural reference that I as someone born in 1999 doesn't get?
3. I know you probably get asked a lot for book recommendations but I wanted to know if you were a podcast person and if you had any podcast recs?
Hi guys! That's the end of the AMA and I have to catch a plane, but thanks to everyone for participating.
Thank you for doing this AMA! I really enjoyed your novel and as a fellow academic/writer, I have a few questions along that theme (and a few that aren't):

1. What are some strategies you find helpful for balancing fiction writing and dissertating/other academic work without burning out entirely?
2. Have you found it necessary to find ways to separate your life within and outside of academia (e.g., your students reading your novel, attending events, etc.)?
3. Which character from IWWV do you most relate to and why?
4. What were some of the more nuanced sources of inspiration for creating IWWV (i.e.g, plot development, characterization, etc.)?

Thanks again!

B.
First of all, If we were villains is my favorite book ever, second of all, do you feel that you as the author know a lot more about what went down than we do (e.g
about James) or have you tried to keep it mysterious for yourself as well?
Do you ever reread the book and wish to change things? Like what?-Elena
Your characters feel so real and alive & I struggle knowing how to not only introduce characters to readers, make them feel real, & have them grow and change
over the course of only so many pages— you achieved this flawlessly though; any tips / techniques you used when writing / drafting?
Hi, M. Thank you for doing this AMA, and for the lovely work of literature.

Do you think there are stories left to tell or areas still unexplored in *dark academia* or is the genre kind of eating itself because of its limited scope?

What is the word on your new novel? Do you ever plan on revisiting Oliver and Co. in future works?
As an actor yourself, which among the characters did you pour most of yourself into while writing them out? O

Also, this is IWWV-unrelated but I follow you on IG and your taste in music is unparalleled. Can you assign an album/artist/track for each of the characters? Kind of
like "this song evokes Oliver vibes" or something like that.

Thanks for doing this AMA, hope you're doing well!
Nothing much here...Just absolutely loved your book!! Especially for writing queer characters, considering the fact that this book was drafted ten years back....
Funny story: I used to have Macbeth (unabridged) as part of the curriculum back in my school and I still remember how I struggled to keep up with the figures of
speech and came this close to loathing Shakespeare and now I wish only if you had written this around that time, probably I would have acknowledged his works
atleast half as much I loved your book ^ ^
I’ve recently been getting into Iris Murdoch and I’ve seen that you like her, what’s your favorite book of hers?
I love your book so much, although sadly someone lost it. If we were villains is blowing up on TikTok and it’s being lumped in the same category as TSH, how does
that make you feel? Do you feel like it’s okay for people to find themselves in your characters or romanticize them?
Seeing as how the protagonist in We Were Villains is a (wrongfully incarcerated) ‘criminal’, I’d like to ask a question in a similar vein… about ‘criminality’…
specifically, what are your personal thoughts on digital piracy (as it relates to ebooks), both as a reader and a published author?
AMA is over, so I just wanted to say that your book made me cry wild tears haha. It’s very important to me so thank you for writing it!
What are your top 5 favorite Shakespeare plays?
Hi M, enjoyed IWWV massively when I first read it in 2017 and reread it again recently this summer. I have a few job-related questions if you don’t mind:

1. What’s your favorite thing about your current job (or the jobs you’ve had)?

2. What type of role do you want to take on after you finish your PhD?

3. Are you more of a "work to live" or a "live to work" type of person?

4. Does your job make you feel happy and fulfilled? Why or why not?

Thank you for taking the time to do this AMA! I hope to read more of your works someday.
Do you feel that the logistic/rules of writing a book can sometimes ruin the magic in it? -Elena
Do you ever plan on writing more dark academia books? And do you have any advice for pursuing higher education in literature?
Do you enjoy modernism or do you wish we as a society weren’t so modern. (In buildings, anything really)
Hi! Firstly just wanted to say that I’m a massive fan of IWWV, it’s one of my favourite books of all time!!!
I have a couple of questions (feel free to only pick one to answer though):
- What does your writing process look like? How do you balance drafting/revising with academia/life?
- What was your query process like? How did you decide the book was ready?
- What was the biggest surprise you had while writing this book (did any scenes/characters come “alive” on the page in that way)?
- Next place you want to travel to?
Have you ever thought about releasing a collection of poems?
Hey, M!
Thanks a lot for doing this ama. IVVW is definitely one my favourites and I'd love to know more about it. So here are some of the questions I wanna ask:
1. Did you read TSH before you wrote Villains? Was it inspired?
2. Your thoughts on dark Academia?
3. Any other DA books you recommend?
4. You probably won't answer this one, but can you throw some more light on the ending? (something about James may be, haha)

sending love
A.
Whats your favorite Strokes song? Super random (sorry!) but really curious
Are there any aspects of IWWV that you would do differently if you were writing it today?
Any favorite Taylor Swift song? Also thank you for writing my favorite book
Hi! Thanks for doing this AMA!

What have you been reading lately? Anything you would recommend we check out?
Hi! I absolutely loved If We Were Villains. Are you currently working on anything? You mentioned there was a road trip novel you're very passionate about and I
truly hope it gets published one day because it sounds so intriguing!
Hi, I'm a huge fan of iwwv, I really love what you've done in this book, it's amazing. I would love to read any other work of yours
1. do you like beaches? if yes, which is your favorite?
2. your favorite book and genre, if you have it.
3. Can I wait for some translation in Portuguese?
  (just an addendum, it was really fun to read me wondering if it really was happening ~ something ~ there or if it was just my imagination) oh i also "read" with my
bestie,I sent the most important lines and told all my thoughts, she even cried just with me sending the things so so fun! i miss this!
Hello! Thanks so much for jumping on! I read on your author blog that you managed to stay at Hamlet's castle a few years back after winning a Shakespeare
contest (though I can't find the exact post anymore). What was that experience like?
What are some of your favorite books?
I don't have a question, I just wanted to say that I recently read If We Were Villains and I really enjoyed it.
Hi, first of all iwwv is one of my favourite books so thank you for writing it! I have some questions:

1) I know you're not gonna answer any direct questions about the ending, but do you have a preferred scenario what happened, and has that changed over time?

2) Do you have a favourite character? Or one that was the most interesting to write?

3) Did you ever make yourself cry writing (or making up the story)? (Because I absolutely would have)

4) This might be a bit too close to being a question about the edning but, in the light of the Pericles quotes, would you classify the book as tragedy or romance?

Thanks!

What would the characters be doing at home during the pandemic?
As a popular author on social media, have you had and experiences with parasocial relationships between you and fans/followers?
1. Hey M.L.!
2. How do you think the ways madness and mood disorder were depicted in drama have impacted our conception of them in the past and now?
3. Did anyone depict them in a particularly helpful way that you would recommend looking into?
Hello M! Thanks for doing this AMA, and for writing my favorite book. When my special edition pre-order from Titan gets here, I will officially own 3 copies of it
because ~~I'm insane and needed to have them~~ I love it so much. I have a few dumb questions <3

1. Do you have a quote or scene from the book that's your favorite?
2. Do you have a favorite quote from Shakespeare?
3. Which of the villains is most likely to wear their mask under their nose?
I'm going to avoid trying to convey the excited scream I let out seeing this post - instead, let me say *thank you* for IWWV, I adore that book. :')

My question(s) would be:

1) Favoruite bad pun that you haven't really had the chance to use yet but one you've been waiting to use? (You did, in fact, guarantee bad puns)


2) Any book recommendations at the moment? This could be literally any book you've ever read, whether it's a bestseller or hidden gem.


Once again, thank you for your work and thank you for taking the time to make this post and answer people's comments. I know of a few people that will fangirl
when I tell them about this post so I'm trying to get in here first. :P
Hi guys! That's the end of the AMA and I have to catch a plane, but thanks to everyone for participating.
Somewhat exasperated. Comparisons are inevitable because comp titles are how publishers sell books and because my publisher pushed that particular comp title
so hard because it's the bestselling novel in the genre, but *TSH* was not nearly as big an influence on me as people usually assume. I only read it once. The first
campus novel I read and re-read most often ("dark academia" was not a thing until recently) was John Knowles's *A Separate Peace.* That said, a lot of what I
wanted to do with *Villains* was upend some of the most tired tropes of the genre--for instance, queerbaiting and an almost total lack of female characters who
have an active role in the story besides being sex objects for the much more numerous men to fight over.
You'd have to ask the publisher, as that decision had nothing to do with me. (Authors have a lot less input on cover art than you might think.)
That's literally the best reader response I could ask for. Thanks for paying it forward.
Hi! So glad to hear it was such a great reading experience for you--travel reading has always been my favorite kind of reading. As to your questions, I've never used
Reddit so forgive me for not knowing how to format anything, but:
* 1. For comedies, I'd start with *Midsummer* or *Twelfth Night.* Fun and easy-ish to follow. For tragedies, *Macbeth*. It's the shortest and one of the best. For
histories, *Henry V* is sort of the gold standard. For romances I'm partial to *The Tempest*.
* 2. There were a lot of reasons. The lack of technology is certainly part of it; this sort of story wouldn't really work if everyone had Wifi and smartphones. But the
whole book is about liminal spaces, and the edge of a new decade/century just felt like the right fit.
* 3. I do listen to some podcasts but wouldn't call myself an aficionado. Favorites at the moment are *Ologies* and *Reply All*, but I also listen to a lot of stuff
released by the BBC, including *Desert Island Discs* if it's a person whose opinion I'm interested in, *Slow Radio*, and *In Our Time* (there's a fun episode on
*Macbeth* which might pair well with a reading of the play).
Damn u must be old
Sure thing. Glad you enjoyed it!
* 1. I've said this a couple of times, but this is something I'm really bad at and you probably don't want my advice on. Lately what I've been trying to do is view my
creative writing and my academic writing (and my music writing) as parts of a whole instead of discrete endeavors, which gives me more permission to focus on
whatever's most pressing, instead of trying to spin all those plates at once.
* 2. Unfortunately, I kind of can't. I can't prohibit my students from attending events or following me on social media unless I make all my accounts private, which
would defeat the purpose as I need them for promotion. So I just don't do or say anything on social media I would be uncomfortable with students coming across.
* 3. Give me 40 years and I'll be Gwendolyn.
* 4. I'm not sure what you mean by "nuanced" sources of inspiration, but mostly what I drew on was my own experience as an actor/student and Shakespeare's
texts. I didn't want to re-tell any one of the plays wholesale, but the structure of the novel is based on structural patterns in the tragedies. As for other sources of
inspiration, music is always a big one for me. I was writing IWWV so long ago that I don't still have the playlist, but every project I work on has its own playlist (or
sometimes a series of playlists) that put me in the right frame of mind to do the work, whether it's when I actually sit down to write or when I'm brainstorming as I
walk the dog or drive to work.
I'm honored! I have my own ideas about what goes on off the page, as it were, but they've evolved over time. Moreover, I do like to leave a lot open to
interpretation, for myself as much as the reader. This is one of my favorite things about Shakespeare's work and sort of an homage to him; his blank spaces are
often as interesting as the text itself.
I haven't re-read the whole book--or much of it at all--since the production draft, a few months before it came out. I find my past work hard to look at, which probably
answers your second question (yes, everything).
I don't know if it was deliberate enough to be called technique, but I spend a lot of time with characters (and plot) before I start writing a first draft--sometimes to the
tune of months or even years. I'm a very thorough outliner and a very thorough character-developer. And even though most of that work doesn't make it into the
prose, it's there under the surface, because when you know a character that well their voice and their actions come very naturally.
My only other bit of advice about this is to balance backstory and characterization with action. You can get a lot of detail between dialogue tags, and it's always
better to give the reader breadcrumbs of backstory as they become relevant rather than dumping a bunch on them at once.
You're very welcome!
I don't think I'm the best person to answer your first question, as I haven't really been reading or writing in the genre since I finished *Villains*, which was all the way
back in 2014. My gut instinct is that there are always new innovations to be made, but the genre definitely seems to be approaching oversaturation at the moment.
I have a lot of different projects in the works, but I've been pretty preoccupied with writing a dissertation the last few years. Maybe that'll be the next book, though
not a novel. Time will tell. As for revisiting the Villains, nope. That's not something I have any plans or desire to do.
I'm running out of time so forgive me if this is a sloppy reply: I didn't really consider any of the characters more representative of me than others. As my agent once
put it, they all represent different parts of me as an actor/organism (yes, even Richard).
As to music, oh man, that would be so hard to do in five minutes so I hope you'll settle for a random album rec for each: for Wren, Mazzy Star, *So Tonight That I
Might See*; for Filippa, Buffy Sainte-Marie, *Illuminations*; for Alexander, Prince, *Controversy*; for Meredith, Tina Turner, *Private Dancer*; for James, Nick Cave,
*The Boatman's Call*; for Richard, the Pixies, *Bossanova*; and for Oliver, Joe Cocker, *With a Little Help from My Friends.*
I'm so happy to hear it resonated with you. Honestly, populating the book with queer characters was the only way to be truthful to the world I was writing. Tragically
many teachers don't really have the tools and skills they need to teach Shakespeare effectively (not their fault, usually), which often results in bad first experiences
for students. I'm glad you gave it another chance.
They change on the reg, but always *Macbeth*, *King Lear*, and *Richard III*. (Unsurprisingly, I'm partial to the most excellent villains.) Recently I've been doing a
lot of work on *Two Noble Kinsmen*, which is deeply underrated. I would also put *Troilus and Cressida* in the category.
So glad you liked it.
1. I genuinely enjoy teaching. I don't have to deal with parents, thank the Bard, because I teach at the university level, and I have a great time leading literature
discussions with college students. I also used to teach a writing workshop in a women's prison before covid, which I loved. I've never seen a more varied and
interesting array of perspectives and life experiences in a workshop, which makes for very rich conversation.
2. Great question. Check back in two years and hopefully I'll have an answer by then.
3. I'm a demented workaholic. I am (ha) working on this.
4. Sometimes. I enjoy my research and writing and, as I mentioned above, I do enjoy teaching. The bigger problem re: happiness and fulfillment is that graduate
school is punishing in terms of how much work it requires and how little you get back for it.
Thanks very much! I hope you can read more of them someday, too.
Only if you hold yourself to them. Rules were made to be broken, but you also need to understand the rules before you break them. Many writing rules exist for a
reason, and until you have a good grasp of what that reason is, you should be careful about disregarding them completely.
Not really, but so little of my life/career has gone according to plan that I wouldn't rule it out. As for pursuing higher education in literature, my advice would honestly
be... don't. Getting a PhD in the humanities is one of the worst places you can possibly be right now, in terms of job prospects and quality of life. The market was
bad before but post-covid it's just disintegrating, and those of us who are too far along to drop out are all scrambling to figure out what to do next with a set of highly
specialized and largely un-transferrable skills. Unless you can't imagine yourself being happy doing anything else I wouldn't recommend you do this to yourself.
Haven't we been cursed with post-modernism for some time now?
Hey, I'm so glad to hear that! Writing process is a lot to fit into one post, but basically I spend a long (long) time outlining, which is a combination of finding the plot
and getting to know the characters. Because most of what I write is loosely upmarket, sometimes what happens is determined by what this or that character would
do in a given situation, and sometimes the way the story unfolds determines who the characters are. There's no hard and fast rule about that. Once I have an
outline I can work with, I try to write for a few hours every night and just keep doing that until all the scenes are written. Then I take a break from it, usually for a
couple of weeks. (Temporal distance is key.) Then the revision begins. A lot of people complain about revision, but it's my favorite part of the process; it's how you
take a sh*tty first draft and turn it into something worth a reader's time.
As for how I balance writing with life and academia, the answer is I kind of don't. If I don't have plans with other people I'm probably working, either on academic
stuff or creative stuff. Recently creative stuff has had to take a backseat, as I'm in the home stretch of my PhD and need to prioritize that so I can get my
dissertation done and get back to fiction. But this lack of work-life balance is something I'm trying to improve. The productivity complex is difficult to unlearn, esp. in
academia.
My query process was pretty standard. I made a list of agents I thought might be interested, sent about 25 query letters, got form rejections or ghosted by most, and
was lucky enough to have a couple of nibbles on my first round of submissions. I decided the book was ready when I'd done about a dozen drafts with and without
input from beta readers and realized there wasn't anything else I could do to improve it without professional help.
I think the biggest surprise for me has actually just been that it seems to have really found its audience like four years after original publication. Normally when
you've been in the limbo of the backlist for a few years, you don't expect to see renewed interest.
As for travel, that's tough. There are so many places I'd like to visit and re-visit that it's hard to pick just one. But maybe Berlin. A lot of interesting history there and
it's a place I've never actually been.
I'm not much of a poet. I've had to write poems here and there for writing classes and exercises, but it's not something I enjoy or have much of a knack for. The
exception is writing stupid parody in iambic pentameter, as that comes very naturally to me.
* 1. Yes but not really, unless you count *TSH* giving me a lot of examples of what I didn't want to do (there's a previous post about this somewhere).
* 2. Generally? Hard to say. "Dark academia" wasn't a thing when I was writing IWWV, and it's not something I've actually read much of since. I do think it's often
guilty of romanticizing all the worst parts of academia (I'm not excluding myself from that) and setting students up for a pretty rude awakening as to what academic
life, and especially graduate school, are actually like, which is why I try to be brutally honest about that.
* 3. This is in here somewhere already, but Catton's *The Rehearsal*, Knowles's *A Separate Peace*, and I might add to that Kurt Vonnegut's *Hocus Pocus*, Meg
Wolitzer's *Sleepwalking*, and Shirley Jackson's *Hangsaman*.
* 4. Nope, sorry.
Oh I can't pick favorite songs any more than I can pick favorite books! Sorry. Blame it on me being a libra.
I would do all of it differently. Looking back on a book you wrote ten years ago is like looking at pictures of yourself ten years ago. All the mistakes stand out in
sharp relief.
Sorry to say I don't really listen to Taylor Swift and couldn't really name more than one or two songs (my music taste is weird, old-school, and often obscure). You're
very welcome! Thanks for reading.
Hi! Sure thing.
Unfortunately almost everything I've read lately has been for teaching or my dissertation, and isn't what you'd call pleasure reading. The last thing I read for myself
was Brian Eno's diary from 1995, *A Year with Swollen Appendices*. It's definitely a richer reading experience for fans of Eno (I'm a big one) but it's full of useful
and charming reflections on art writ large. For fans of *Villains* or campus novels in general I might plug Eleanor Catton's *The Rehearsal*, which never seems to
appear on those lists, which is a crying shame. Maybe also Iris Murdoch's *The Book and the Brotherhood*, which once made me yell out loud on a crowded bus.
I'm always working on something, and I'm still working on that! Road trips are an idea I return to obsessively, as I've spent an insane amount of time driving around
this country because of my own wanderlust, where the important people in my life are, and the fact that my dog doesn't fit under an airplane seat.
Hey, thanks very much. Hopefully there will be more for you to read someday/soon.
* 1. The beach isn't usually my first destination for a vacation (it's never as idyllic as it looks) but I'm a California kid and partial to Ocean Beach for purely nostalgic
reasons.
* 2. Nope, no favorite genre. I read a little of everything.
* 3. Translation is out of my hands. We have to wait for a foreign publisher to make us an offer, and we haven't had any interest from Portugal so far.
I did! Airbnb teamed up with the Danish tourism commission to host a contest to stay in the castle at Elsinore/Helsingør and said that "submissions in iambic
pentameter [were] encouraged." I'm fairly certain that was a joke but I did it anyway and won, so I guess they meant it. I was living in London at the time, so it was a
quick flight Copenhagen and then a train from there. We got to see the penultimate production of the Globe's traveling *Hamlet* in the banquet hall, which is
probably as close to an authentic early modern experience as I'll ever get. There was a lot of food I didn't recognize (menus were in Danish) and even more wine,
so the end of the evening is fuzzy, but we got to sleep one of the castle towers and woke up to a pretty dazzling sunrise over the water. It was pretty magical. One
of those weird things that doesn't feel real, so I sometimes forget it happened.
I don't really have favorites. I have different books I turn to for different things, and increasingly my various TBR lists (things to read for fun, for my dissertation, for
teaching, etc.) are so unwieldy that I can't really justify revisiting anything, which feels like a prerequisite for a "favorite" to me. Maybe someday when life is less
chaotic I'll have time to (re)discover favorites again.

Thank you so much for reading! I'm really pleased to hear you enjoyed it.
Of course--I'm so glad it found you.
1) I don't answer any questions about the end, full stop. (People are always determined to find a way around this, and it's never going to work. Sorry!)
2) Not really--I love and hate them all in different ways. Alexander was probably the most fun to write. I will always come to Meredith's defense, because she tends
to get way more hate than she deserves. I wish people looked at James with the same suspicion and scrutiny. I think people who don't understand Richard just
haven't met one in real life yet (they will). Oliver is an idiot but he's my favorite idiot. I wish Wren had gotten more page time. Filippa deserved better from everyone
but she knows it so it's okay.
3) There were a few moments that caught me off-guard. One was the first time I re-read the dock scene and really thought about it from James's perspective rather
than Oliver's, which was a bit of a gut punch.
4) See #1.
Reading, drinking, and going slowly insane, probably much like the rest of us.
I don't know that I'm really "popular." I have a couple thousand followers, which isn't that many comparatively speaking. That said, I'm pretty careful to keep my
personal relationships separate from my relationships with readers/followers--partly because I'm a pretty private person in many ways and partly because I truly just
don't have time to respond to every DM I get.
To answer your first question I'd need to give you an entire dissertation, and it's not done yet! But to try to put it briefly, the ways in which we interpret what the early
moderns called "madness" and mood disorder is absolutely influenced by popular culture, both in terms of expression and diagnosis. For me the most relevant
aspect of Renaissance physiology is the inseparability of mind and body. As anybody who's ever struggled with a health crisis will probably tell you, the line
between mental and physical is extremely porous. (Descartes was very wrong about that, imo.) As for references/resources, this is way too long a list to condense
into a post here, and I don't want to recommend you something like Burton's *Anatomy of Melancholy*, which is essential reading to wrap your head around all this
but also 1300 pages long and terribly, terribly dense. If you want a relatively easy-to-read intro, I come back to Michael MacDonald's *Mystical Bedlam* pretty
frequently, but it's not always easy to find.
I'm so glad that special edition is bound for a good home.
* 1. Not that I can think of, although most of Alexander's best burns would probably qualify.
* 2. Way, way too many to choose from, but I never get tired of the linguistic labyrinths that are *Macbeth* and *Lear*.
* 3. I think we all know the answer to this one (and the answer is Richard).
*adds a separate peace to TBR
Thanks for the response! I hadn't considered the point about liminal spaces and the end of a century but that's super cool to think about.
omg typo I promise I am not 1822 years old I just don't know how to proofread :(
actually i'm from brazil but ok i understand     and i'm also from a place close to the sea! I always remember James and Oliver (probably) close to the ocean too! I
hope they are...

I wouldn't consider those books old. IMO as long as it's been published in the past decade, it's not old.
Ah yes, Song of Achilles, so long ago
Regardless of whether or not the books are actually classics or whether or not this is all for aesthetic purposes, I far prefer this trend to kids stealing shit from
schools.
It's been fascinating watching Tik Tok essentially "romanticize" reading and books for a whole generation. There are certainly criticisms that can be made - the idea
of romanticization can raise into question how much of this is people actually loving books, and how much is it people doing it for the aesthetic. I also have some
issues with over consumption that I think can be encouraged by Tik Tok's algorithm (i.e. excessive book hauls). However, I think this is an overall positive effect by
encouraging "the youth" to read, making old bookworms fall in love with reading again (my experience!), and, though I don't have proof, I think revitalizing the
printed book industry. Some recommendations can become repetitive (the same 5 NA/YA fantasy series being recommended over and over), but there's a solid
side of "BookTok" that's garnering more interesting in literary fiction, classics, even nonfiction (though I think that genre is lacking representation on Tik Tok, sadly).
I work at a bookstore and I had a teenager come up and buy rupi kaur's milk & honey the other day. i dont like their writing but i like to make small talk so i said
something like "oh a modern classic!" and the teenager said "oh is it? i dont know i saw it on tik tok"
I just love the word "booktok" - it manages to be a brief and precise description of the thing while sounding silly and cute.
Excited that TikTok could at least leave a partially good impact on society to make reading appealing to a new generation! While I find BookTok a little repetitive
with the books that get the most visibility (which is primarily YA/NA romance or fantasy), I'm still happy that reading is becoming popular again. Hopefully this
resurgence for books is also helping the small book sellers as much as it is B&N (or *bleh* Amazon).
Thanks for posting! I'm going to start following.

I have found that in the past year or so, MANY of my friends have started posting what they are reading on their instagram stories and at year end, many posted
screenshots of Goodreads year in reviews. I got a bunch of book recs from both of them, and it's great to be able to share thoughts with people you know IRL, even
if it's not in person due to pandemic or family life/schedules.
Haven't read Songs of Achilles yet (I own it), but I really enjoyed Circe by the same author. One of the best books I've read in the past decade.
Thriftbooks the new plug
As a bookseller it's really nice seeing older books gain or re-gain popularity with a new audience.

It is crazy how our bestseller list is currently dominated by books that came out several years ago because that isn't the norm. Most books drop off after a few
months with only real classics hanging on year in, year out.

Publishers will push a select few books really hard for a year or so (if that) and then move on to the next big thing, returning to promote a past best-selling author's
book if they're still seen as worth-while e.g. Sally Rooney, Susanna Clarke etc. But publishing is obsessed with debut authors, particularly if they're a young literary
talent.

So, it's going to be fascinating to see how the book industry responds to tiktok and the sway booktokers have over their audience.

I've also seen a few authors get picked up by traditional publishers after they found success through self-publishing and promoting themselves on tiktok.
Considering how slow the industry can be, it's about time they realised be impact social media really has.

In regards to tiktok being more fomo or aesthetic based then actual readers promoting reading... it depends who you follow. The algorithm will change based on
what you watch and like. My fyp is very diverse and is primarily readers reviewing what they've recently read or sharing info on books that are lgbt, feature bipoc as
protagonists etc. When I first started browsing booktok it was a lot of romance, YA and book hauls but now those things rarely show up as the algorithm worked out
what I actually like. But, of course, some people will always be susceptible to fomo and impulse buying.
Can we please do this more than the "tik tok encourages people to steal stuff from their already underfunded public schools?". I like books, go read a book.
Whether they're old or new, at least more people are reading
I think it’s cool that tiktok has that influence with literature. “Kids don’t read anymore”.
Am I old or did some of those come out in the last 3 years?
Not a fan of his ‘work’ but that pewdiepie guy reviews classics for his readers. I rate the lad for that.
Love that the kids think reading is cool
Only thing I'm hoping is that they are able to find some lost gems. Books that were only ever paperback, authors that only ever wrote one book, stuff that's been
relegated to academics bc it's out of print for the last 50 years but is very readable by the average person, sci-fi that didn't take the mainstream view, mysteries that
tried a new kind of villain or detective, etc. Let's get weird.
Weird question - as someone who likes books like Ender’s Game, The Hunger Games, and pretty much any Star Wars novel, which of these 8 would I like?
Tick tock? *Reading*? Well, I never!!


Of the eight in the image I only recognise the Song of Achilles. Do I need to rectify that?

Anyway, that book was already a bestseller, and isn't very old, so I'm dubious about the article.
As long as they're not deviously stealing them from the library, sounds great!
Hot take:

I don't see this as a rebirth of reading. I see this as another form of advertising your personal brand as a sort of "intellectual" or "down to earth" or straight up "I'm
different" and the reaction is much more FOMO and, as others put it, aesthetic based than anything else. I may be a pessimist, but I don't believe that the actual act
of reading is what a lot of these TikTokers are promoting. They are promoting themselves....

To be fair, I only watched one single tik tok video on this (in the article linked), a bookshelf tour looks nice and innocent on the surface, but in reality (in my view) it is
just the same as that one beach photo or that photo of your fancy lunch with that drink with the umbrella. It is showcasing the individual's "this is my wonderful life".
Some may see this bookshelf tour and their immediate response is to go buy a bookshelf and fill it with books that other tik tokers are promoting because they want
to be like them. This is perpetuating consumption under the guise of something that is commonly regarded as good and healthy behavior. I love books. I love
reading. But this is still promoting unhealthy consumption (consumption as in a consumer buying things) and living a materialistic life. Just because books are
generally regarded as "common good" this trend can still be harmful to those overwhelmed by the desire to run the popularity and superficial social media fantasy
life race.

Same formula, different product/experience. Instead of actors on the silver screen and cigarettes it is Tik Tokers and bookshelves full of books. Yeah, books are
more commonly regarded as "good" more than cigarettes are (perhaps not to certain groups around the globe, but I digress), but this is still advertising and peddling
a product and lifestyle.

I wonder why Tik Tokers aren't showcasing their latest OverDrive download from their local library on their 8 year old Kindle. Maybe they are...and if so, gah bless
'um.

&#x200B;

edit: formatting

edit: grammar-ish....I try.
The question though is: Are they reading it or just buying it for clout?
I'd never have thought that tiktok zoomers would find any value in reading at all.
That's good I guess.
These are “old” books? Are you like, 12, or something OP?
Go follow Sydney! I know that lady!
This is awesome news
Glad to see Gen z enjoying the classics.
One good thing about tiktok
I’m sure most of y’all probably know this, but project Gutenberg at Gutenberg.org has tens of thousands of free ACTUALLY old books and literature that you can
download and read on your kindle/tablet.
Bullshit
To be fair, the actual article title is **decade**\-old books, not just old books. The OP just streamlined it down a little too far.
I wonder if [this](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_Is_to_Be_Done%3F) will make it on thir list.
Read a book then destroy a school bathroom.
A lot of people are saying these books aren't old, but the book world moves on **fast.** New releases are genuinely all the hype nowadays.

Side note: sometimes, just sometimes, I can find readers on this sub a bit patronizing towards the younger generations...
Damnit. Tik tok is doing something I have to pay attention to.
I have bought most of those books thanks to TikTok but only because they look good on my shelf. Don't really have time to read them, plus the TikTok summaries
and back-and-forth between users who have read them is good enough to get the point.
Finally good for something arnt we —> TikTok
You mean to tell me that TikTok is actually good for something after all? I still don’t believe you.
[deleted]
I'm not going to lie. I legitimately did not believe a TikTok user capable of finishing an entire book by themselves.
Game of Thrones books are older than most of those.
My girlfriend works at Barnes and Noble and apparently there are some real classics that are getting popular on tik tok. *The Picture of Dorian Gray*, for example
Most popular books only have 1-3 years of hype/discussion followed by basically no sales.
Hey as long as the trend is about reading books, I don't care honestly.
When I read the title I was thinking pre-world war 2
Not that the books are old but that they are old to be bestsellers.
I think they mean backlist but old books makes more sense to the everyday person.
Old has to be at least before 2000 IMO.
I saw The Song of Achilles in the thumbnail and my first thought became "oh so these aren't old books at all". Like the Iliad was written well over 2500 years ago.
THAT is an old book.

Read whatever you want to read regardless when it was published, don't get me wrong. But lets just call a spade a spade. If you were talking about a Netflix original
series, something from ten years ago would be old. But if you are talking books, old means hundreds/thousands of years ago.

While I agree in theory, in practice the "lifespan" of the average YA book (which many of the books going viral on TikTok are) is relatively short. With exceptions of
the big names -- Leigh Bardugo, SJM, John Green, etc, hype comes and goes pretty quickly because of sheer number of YA books that are published in a given
year.
Lol at The Song Of Achilles being considered “old”.
It's okay for people to use totally subjective words differently than you. What's "old" for the scifi community is gonna be different than the Classics department.
People are reading what they want, and using language that makes sense in their context.

The commenters in this thread calling these readers weird (and worse), and saying, "Wait til they hear about Ancient Greece!" are snobbish buffoons.
Honestly when it said old books, the latest I was thinking was 1800s
Yeah. Old, in terms of books, to me is pre-1950. And for movies, pre-60s. For TV, pre-80s. Personal yardsticks, probably created by what I was exposed to growing
up and where I formed my interests in.
Its not "old" but its old in the sense that it probably was unlikely these books become bestsellers 5 years after release I guess?
Lol top comment is just bitching about word choice.

It doesn't fucking matter.
Song of Achilles came out like a couple months ago
compared to the books which normally show up on the bestseller lists even a two year old book might be relatively old. not the perfect word to use here though
maybe
True, but what a low floor of expectations.
Yeah it was the same for me. I was in a bad reading slump during quarantine and I ran into one of the booktok compilations on youtube and watched it. I watched
so many and started reading again. I love booktok for getting me out of my slump
Would be nice for them to start romanticising going to the library lol, would cut down on the overconsumption a bit
I just really dont care if people do it "for the aesthetic." doesn't hurt anyone.
Aesthetics is way more important for Gen Z than other generations for whatever reason. Not to say my generation didn't have aesthetics, but when every single
style of outfit has a name, following, and lifestyle to accompany it, that seems like aesthetics is the driver.

EDIT: To clarify, that is just an observation. No value judgement involved. I'm not into bashing the next generation simply because it's not how my generation did
things.
Could you please share or PM some accounts you recommend? I think I’m finally gonna make a tiktok for this
NA books? It’s next to YA so I’m assuming New Adult?
Rupi Kaur is the shitty Instagram 'poet', right?
I'm not a YA reader anymore and if you spend enough time on booktok there are definitely mostly smaller accounts who talk about other genres, for what that's
worth. It's more niche content on tik tok but I figure most of the viewers are teens so it only makes sense. I've found great book recommendations through tik tok of
all sources, I really think it's a cool thing that reading is becoming so trendy on the platform!
I’m not accusing you of this but this comment made me think of it. There is something very funny to me about people who say negative things about tiktok on
Reddit. There seems to be a lack of self-awareness among redditors. They’re not realizing they are currently using a social media site that has had as much of a
negative impact on society as any other.
What's NA? North America ?
Are they reading ... or making videos to show on TikTok how many books they have ... for likes.
Cannonball Read is great & charitable.
I don't have TikTok but I saw Song of Achilles at an airport a few months ago and was about to buy it. I haven't stopped thinking about it and when I'm done with my
current book, I've got to go buy it.
good to know. Really liked the song of Achilles. I would highly recommend it.
Could you give some examples?
If you enjoy YA and romance, maybe give them a shot as it’s all over Tiktok because of those two things which is always great for those who appreciate them.

I actually went to check the dates and only Song of Achilles could be considered a *decade* old in 2022. The rest came out between 2016-2021.
I loved Circe but haven't read Song of Achilles yet. Is it worth a read?
Broadly speaking, I feel the same. But I hope that at least a few of those falling into the trend find they genuinely love reading and will grow because of it. There is
nothing like reading an amazing book -- it stretches your soul.
Does it matter if it's putting money into bookstores so they can stay open? Even if they buy off Amazon, its increasingly the demand for print books.
I mean, so what? A lot of times people get something for clout (and while that phrase is pretty recent, the behavior it describes is ancient) and then get more
interested afterwards. Tech bros who buy art bc now they can afford to go to a Christie's or Sotheby's auction, but then they get more interested and start learning
about visual art and discovering up and coming artists who don't give them clout like buying a Chagall would, and then they start donating to museums and art-in-
school organizations. Like, that's a good thing. Why assume that bc a teenager bought a book for the looks or the clout, they will always stay that way and never
develop an interest? Unless you know the person, no good reason to assume the worst.
Doesn't matter either way tbh. If they read the SparkNotes but then encourage younger readers to actually read the book it's good.
I mean, yes? But, some might be actually reading the books due to it being popularized. So ratio is rather irrelevant.


Hell imagine if we made scientists or teachers into celebrities. A lot more people would be interested in the field. Would the quality reduce? Potentially but it would
probably overcome with volume
That's exactly what I was wondering.
[deleted]
That's what the article is about.
I've noticed in a lot of online book spaces, if a book hasn't been published in the last year or so, it's automatically considered old. Makes no sense to me personally.
And besides, not everyone has instant access to the newest titles.
Homers work is two millennia old… Game of thrones is a young child in comparison.
I will say one thing I've noticed about B&N is that if you walk around their 'bargain' section, they have some beautiful bindery's on classics that are very eye
catching, I think that helps a little bit too.

(Though our local B&N has a bigger Manga section than History section and a bigger YA Supernatural Romance bay than science section... so I have mixed
feelings)
In university I lent a copy of Dorian Gray that I’d hi-lighted, noted in the margins, etc to a girl I was into. Never did get it back. One of those things I really miss.
Good point. I agree.
Yeah I'll hand this one to TikTok.
Me, too. I thought TikTok was inspiring people to read classics.
Lol, a new generation of readers is using a totally subjective word differently than you, and your response is, "They are incorrect."

amioutoftouchnoitsthechildrenwhoarewrong.jpg
> not the perfect word to use here though maybe

Realistically, people in this sub would complain about an article like this no matter what word was used. No one does gatekeeping quite like redditors.
Listen, we're talking about TikTok here.

I don't mean to pull the r/iamverysmart Redditor bullshit (proceeds to pull the r/iamverysmart Redditor bullshit. . .), but I do think TikTok tends to be more damaging
than similar platforms due to the targeted age range and lack of moderation. There's a lot of peer pressure involved, which is where you get teens committing
crimes and dangerous stunts to keep up with viral trends.
Agree 100%!! Hopefully more of these discussions will be had, and more people will take advantage of their libraries
I think it's just further refinement of what's already there. We already had styles of clothing, grunge, punk, emo, preppy. Every generation just refines it further.
Eventually it'll be micromanaged into oblivion generations down the line.
yeah, that seems the be the case. i'm sure posting everything on social media helps that. all about that personal brand. for better or for worse aesthetics seem to be
a huge motivator.
They're finding their tribe. They do it different because all the tribes their parents belonged to suck.
Oh I’ll try my best, don’t follow a ton of people so here’s just a few

schizophrenicreads - one of the few book tok accounts that focuses on non fiction

digital.ingenue

mushroomforbooks

right.hand.of.light - plugging myself oops

lbhreads
the one and only
More like a 'shitty' Instagram poet, but what do I know
I've found a ton of horror BookTokers!
A lot of people don't realize tiktok has as broad of a set of content as YouTube at this point and think it only contains dumb dance videos and teenagers being
cringey. I know, I was one of them until recently.
Right, Reddit is just as capable of dumbassery as any other group of internet users. But very few people know who Captain Taggart is, like this isn’t *”me”* IRL. My
friends and schoolmates don’t follow me on here and I don’t follow them either. So there’s less of a peer-pressure type of culture here since you’re all my peers and
also *not* my peers. Ya know what I mean? Reddit is social media, yes, but it’s less ‘social’ than other social media. The way it functions makes it’s harder for
dumbass trends to spread into Real Life. None of my friends are thinking “dang better go check out Captain’s page to see if she ate a tide pod like the rest of us”.

Whereas a lot of people who have tiktok specifically do it for followers, and their followers are often their friends. Like YT is social media too but I don’t go to the
comment section there to have a good discussion, and don’t even get me started on Imgur. Redditors can be really full of themselves and think it’s the best social
media platform, but denying that different platforms have different cultures/demographics/uses is silly. And Reddit and tiktok are pretty different in those regards I
think.
Reddit has had a much bigger negative impact than many others, I'd suggest. Gamergate might've floundered on 4chan if so many hadn't found it on Reddit.
r/TheDonald was enormous. Reddit's gotten better, but its ability to popularize and normalize niche internet junk is dangerous when it doesn't care if that niche is
based on politically-motivated lies.
Stands for "New Adult" which is an emerging genre in US publishing.
Assuming this response is in good faith and replying accordingly: I'm on booktok, and I mostly see people providing recommendations, ratings, and comparisons of
books to other books they've read/reviewed in the past.
Tell me you enjoy gatekeeping and strawmanning without telling me :)
Books as a personality and books for interior design.
I do have TikTok, but was unaware of anything having to do with this post. Guess I'm watching the wrong videos lol
> I actually went to check the dates and only Song of Achilles could be considered a decade old in 2022

I refuse to believe that. While you may be factually correct, you would also be making me feel ancient, and I cannot allow that. Sorry. Song of Achilles only just
came out, 1980 is still only 20 years ago, the iPhone is not a teenager, and I still have a full head of hair. Anything else is a lie.

(In all seriousness, Song of Achilles is a terrific read, as is Circe. I've already decided I'll read anything Madeline Miller puts out)
Same, looks like we've both gotta read it now
Omg you must read it
Absolutely!!!
Absolutely. I may have come off a little negative nelly and playing more of the devil's advocate than I intended. There is a silver lining to this trend and it may more
than just the lining. The majority of this trend could be a net positive. Getting butts (even a minority of butts) in bookstores is pretty amazing to begin with. The
discovery and the experience of the entire process could spark so many things.

I feel very positive about the trendy videos of the trades on social media (metal working, woodworking, electrical, etc.). There is so much content out there that
promotes creativity, making, and the arts/trades that one can not ignore the positivity in that.

At the same time, however, this is the same platform that had kids eating laundry detergent pods.

One must take caution in endorsing a trend as wholesome or healthy when it is on these platforms. Even if it is books.
Well they get offended at the "phone bad" meme and then turn around and do this
Speaking of old books not published in a long time, I came across Paper Backs From Hell recently and it made me really sad to realize how many decent to above
decent paper backs died out or were lost after they were published once and never again.
You'd be amazed at how many people nowadays consider any media not within the last 5yr span to be old.
I think I consider some books old when I find it hard to find them in print, regardless of year it used to be published.
I reckon that's because much of the people involved in "online book spaces" are obsessive/hard-core hobbyists as opposed to casual readers
A lot of online book spaces feed off of arcs and reviews of the latest and greatest, etc, just like pretty much every other fan space.
Yeah I mean what are they talking about? Books aren't old until the author is dead, and then only if they lived to be a ripe old age.
It's weird with books b/c my perception is based on a few things. When did I first learn about it? That can make a book feel new even if it's older.

How many paper back versions are there. If they're still on the first cover of the paperback the book will feel new to me. Even if it's like 10 years old. But if a book
gets a cover change almost immediately b/c it got made into a movie or something it will feel older to me.

If a book has been moved into remainder bins it can make it feel older. Even if the book isn't that old but they did a new cover b/c it won an award or something and
I find it for like $9 on the remainder table I'll think of it as an old book. I just got a copy of a fairly recent Grady Hendrix book and thought, "Oh, has this been out that
long?" when I picked it up.

Where you are can make a big difference. Different parts of the country discover books at different times. Sometimes a book that everyone already read a year ago
will be the new hot thing in a different city or state. I see this a lot when I travel for the holidays and my family will be gifting books that were big last year where I live
now.

Book time is kind of its own time continuum that isn't always linear.
Yeah, those books are in the "New" section. Therefore all others are old.
I hate that mentality because this is exactly what caused an stagnation in the industry.

It's exactly as fast fashion, the goal is not really to make good literature anymore, just to push as much new content as possible. Also creates a lot of waste
because these books quickly become garbage no one wants (at least some people use e-books).
I guess if your categories are "brand new" and "not brand new" then I guess 99.99% of books are old by default.
Sure, but I was going off recent age like the previous comment. A Game of Thrones is over 2 decades old, making it old by their standard of aging.
Almost 3. The earliest written versions are predated by centuries of oral tradition.
That's nothing new though. Nonfiction has always been less popular than fiction and anything outside history and biographies are really niche.
I thought for sure they were referring to early mid 19th century stuff.
Not sure saying "That book's not old" is gatekeeping.
And every generation grows out of it once their parents aren't footing most of the bill. Gen Z will be alright too, we just need to give them time to grow.

-Gen X parent of a Gen Z teen
Past aesthetics seemed to be about niche sub-cultures while modern aesthetics have made it into the every day.

We've all seen the idealized image of the readers aesthetic: you, surrounded by neatly organize bookshelves, curled up on a window seat with a blanket and a cozy
sweater, a steamy cup of tea in one hand, a book in the other while the gentle sound of rain hitting the window adds serenity to the scene.

I'm not saying this is bad but it does kind of showcase how the aesthetics of a hobby have almost overtaken the hobby itself. Like it's not enough to just read, you
read for the image you can present to other people and to achieve some kind reading lifestyle goals.
If only she was the only! "shitty instagram poet" is a whole trend now. sigh.

I love this video about it: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xnwb8i71brw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xnwb8i71brw)
Please recommend some!
Same! There are a lot on Instagram too. I checked out bookstagram a while ago and didn’t really feel like I got a lot from it because I wasn’t interested in a lot of the
books people were recommending, but then I found the horrorlit side
my tiktok feed is 100% videos of people cleaning pools, random philosophy, history facts, dogs and fart jokes.
When did I deny that different social media has different cultures/demographics/uses? They are different. Reddit is actually worse. Being anonymous means there
have been subreddits dedicated to pedophilia, racism, sexism, extremist rhetoric, pro-rape groups... the list goes on. Reddit also has had a notoriously relaxed
policy about policing these kind of groups. Google "Reddit Boston Bomber" and tell me that reddit doesn't spread to real life.
reddit is basically a more mainstream 4-chan
And to explain further: it’s aimed at the age group after young adult, so a lot of the characters are college aged and the plots are more sexually explicit.
Do you ever do any book club or read-along series? I follow youtubers who do that kinda thing, I wonder how tiktok is as a platform for that stuff.

I’m mostly familiar with weird old people tiktok lol, booktok sounds like probably better use of my time
I'd assume booktok is probably the same as booktube, so i'm not sure why people would be surprised by this. It's not a new thing at all and anyone mildly into
reading should be aware of it. Is it maybe a little more superficial that some people would like? Sure, but it's not just people buying books because they like what
color they are or whatever.
He could be right are they reading the books or just buying them. I suppose it's good for authors and publishers.
IDK if that's gatekeeping. Think it makes a big difference to the industry's survival if this trend is about increasing readers or just liking the look of a colorful
bookshelf. The latter can fade pretty quickly.
I mean, did you watch the video the article linked? It was a "bookshelf tour" narrated by that robot voice that started with authors, and devolved into "pretty covers"
and "chunky books."
can't believe this dumb comment is upvoted. I don't think you know what gatekeeping is. Obviously just buying books is not the same as reading them lol.
Yeah, well, that is not new. The Strand Bookstore, book snobs' favorite bookstore for many decades, sold books by the foot so people could just fill shelves. And
yes, you could request cover colors, or that they have filigree, or that they be tall or short hardcovers, etc. Please note that this service provided by The Stand was
expensive, so it was people with a stable income and extra cash doing it. Also, the entire history of interior design is putting its hand up to confess the same fouble.
And centuries-worth of landed gentry from Europe and Asia had huge libraries in their manors, mansions, chateaux, villas, palaces, and garden follies, but most
books remained unread. Acting like the tiktokkers (?) are creating all the horrible things is ageist, ignorant, and gross.
It's one pro of digital media nowadays. Hopefully thanks to it books will no longer basically cease to exist.
Tell me about it. The old Asimov books look so feckin cool.
Paper backs from hell? Is that and actual books site?
Imagine these peoples surprise when they find out books from 800 B.C.E exist.
That + publishers constantly send them free newly released books (and they complain about being given free books, but that's a completely different topic), and
they hype them up and give them 5 star reviews, swearing that they're being totally honest.
Sure, but it's pretty weird to call a book published within the decade "old". They wouldn't refer to movies released in that same span as old.

Any book older than a year, two years tops, is old apparently         makes no sense.
Well said!
With the exception of books that manage to become popular and withstand the test of time, anything over a year or two old is objectively old when it comes to best
sellers just due to the nature of how the publishing industry works. So something that is a few years old becoming popular, either again, or for the first time due to
tiktok is "...Making Old Books Bestsellers".
"Young people shouldn't use a totally subjective word differently than I do. We must correct them."
I've tried doing stuff like that 'setting the scene' for reading and so on, or maybe having a drink while listening to records or something. It never lasts, it never feels
natural to me. I always catch myself not really enjoying the moment.

Now I just do those things when I get any sort of urge. I read a lot more frequently on the toilet. Is what it is.
>I'm not saying this is bad but it does kind of showcase how the aesthetics of a hobby have almost overtaken the hobby itself. Like it's not enough to just read, you
read for the image you can present to other people and to achieve some kind reading lifestyle goals.

I mean, that's only in the context of people who choose to post about their hobbies online, for obvious reasons.

What percentage of people in a hobby might be the type to post pictures of themselves doing it? How many people are *actually* about the aesthetics of a hobby
and how many just do their hobby quietly without much online fanfare?
Alright I was sitting there for the first little bit thinking “how bad can they really be?” Apparently pretty bad. Oof
Baker.reads is a tiktoker with a ton of horror and splatter punk book recs
Seconding baker.reads but also booksinthefreezer is great!
are they still written for the limited vocab of a baby or is the writing better
Bruh... If they wanted a colorful bookshelf they'd buy empty book covers or stylized faux book decor shelves, that's way cheaper than actual books and is actually
functional.


Like do you honestly think all these people are randomly buying shiny/bright books just to put them on a shelf with 0 regard for what's in them? That seems more
far-fetched than 5g causing the frogs to go gay.
I don't see a problem with it. They were having fun sharing their books and it's fine by me.
I never said it was something new. I think it is goofy to keep libraries of books opened less than once every few years regardless of age. You made a lot of
assumptions from my statement to pop off on something you obviously care very much to argue about.
And with the wealth of projects copying and recording audio of all copyright free books and stories we have so many ways to access it. The only real issue now is
apocalyptic level events that wipe out all means of accessing the data. But it that happens, oral story telling still exists.
Old book art was so interesting.
I was just trying to find them on eBay, I would really like to have those old editions with the awesome covers. So hard to find in good condition.
I’m a Kilgore Trout man myself
It's a book the chronicles all the cool paper backs from the late 60's into the early 90's. They have managed to collect a ton and reprint them.
I think it's more just about the colloquial understanding of the word "old". Most people wouldn't use it purely in the context of "not new". It's an unusual usage, not
one I would say is necessarily understood as objectively true. That's all.

Edit: I'd probably write it as "past books" or possibly (not ideally) as "older books" (relative to "new books"). I guess what I mean is "old", to most people, implies the
passage of a lot of time, and that of course depends on who is reading it as to how they interpret a lot of time. But fewer people are likely to interpret "old" as "two
years ago", in the context of something that has been around for thousands of years, and also lasts a very long time.
In our time, anything ten years old is “old.” The Song of Achilles came out the same year the iPhone 4s did. It’s a timeless book that I don’t think will ever go out of
style, but trends just move so fast now. If anything, I think it was ahead of its time.
I just don't think pointing out unusual usages of words is gatekeeping.
I actually know several people irl who don't post anything online but are on this quest to live out the aesthetics of reading or knitting or gardening or cottagecore. I
think in some ways the aesthetic represents a world they want to live in, simple and idealistic.

It's like an escapist fantasy.
One of the funniest tweets I ever saw was someone quoting a tweet of Rupi Kaur reading from her own poetry book. The quoted tweet says “I thought this was
someone making fun of Rupi Kaur, not actually Rupi Kaur.” Cried laughing.
They are written in the YA style but with themes for young adults (18+)
>Bruh... If they wanted a colorful bookshelf they'd buy empty book covers or stylized faux book decor shelves, that's way cheaper than actual books and is actually
functional.

Except it doesn't get you any social brownie points. Bruh.

>Like do you honestly think all these people are randomly buying shiny/bright books just to put them on a shelf with 0 regard for what's in them? That seems more
far-fetched than 5g causing the frogs to go gay.

You're way too optimistic about human nature. Obviously there are a lot of people who buy books not to read them but to fill up pretty libraries and look smart, how
have you never met one?
What I mean is that if the focus is on a pretty bookshelf for social media clout, it won't last. Precisely because people won't keep going out and buying the books. I'd
love to see a genuine love of reading make a full throated comeback but it's going to take more than one article about some hashtag for me to believe it's
happening.
> The only real issue now is apocalyptic level events that wipe out all means of accessing the data. But it that happens, oral story telling still exists.

Ahh yes the short road to Thunderdome. I'm weirdly ok with this.
> The only real issue now is apocalyptic level events that wipe out all means of accessing the data. But it that happens, oral story telling still exists.

That's why bootstrap technology is so important (and sadly too much overlooked)

It gives you access to rudimentary technology, which in turn gives you acess to better technology, and this keeps repeating itself until you have access to all
technology and knowledge.
I was gifted an awesome set of postcards featuring old Penguin sci-fi titles. Lots of classics like Asimov, Bradbury - Vonnegut ones are my faves though.
As.a fellow book worm, would you recommend this book for someone who really likes reading older books.
Not in all contexts, to be sure, but in the context of this comment section it is.

Let's say, when you were a kid, you read an article about the way you and your peers engage with the hobby of reading. Then you read a buncha comments (or
letters to the editor) almost all about how kids are "doing it wrong", specifically, how a single word was used incorrectly (it wasn't). A buncha people saying that kids'
sense of time isn't subjective, but wrong. How much respect would child-you have for that?

Maybe I'm wrong about how kids'll read this—I'm 34—but imo this comment section taken in aggregate is pedantic and snobbish.
i will never understand why people hate rupi kaur's poetry so much, like there are a few poems that are a little cringy but she writes so much about social change
and being an indian woman in american and generational trauma and intersectional feminism and still everyone is like lol she's so fake deep!!
oh weird
I love to read. And I have also judged a book by its cover because I thought it looked nice. Later I read it, but I’d be dishonest if I said that a good looking book isn’t
sometimes enticing to me lol
Good old STC’s.

A good book to check is Lucifer’s Hammer. Comet causes world wide destruction and a really smart dude packs all his important medical and science books in
plastic bags and coolers and buries them.
It’s free on Audible right now too. No pictures but great shout outs to what to look for.
I didn't really read the comment section, I was just commenting on the use of the word "old" being unusual. Saying you think a concept might be better expressed
with a different word isn't gatekeeping, even if, as you point out, you are expressing your opinion towards an entire generation of people (which is a weird way of
doing things anyway, imo).

Sure, everyone understands language differently, but words having usual colloquial and official meanings is how language works. If we can change the word (for
example) "old" to mean "any amount of time has passed", depending on context, then it becomes more and more meaningless. In the context of bestsellers, sure
maybe the industry sees "old" as being 2 years or more, but is that the way the majority of people will read it, in a non-industry publication?

All of this is not to say that I necessarily agree with either side of the argument. But just to say that, in my opinion only, debating the relative merits of various words
to use in a given context isn't really gatekeeping.
Because her poems suck (in my opinion). You’re entitled to like her poetry, and that’s fine, but an even bigger thing that a lot of people don’t like is that she
popularized “Instagram poetry.” Because of that, she’s very often targeted as a stand-in for a lot of people’s hate for Instagram poetry. Is the hate she receives all
valid? No, but as a poet, I think she’s bad at what she does.
and its fine to not like her, but the amount of hate she gets is over the top imo. i mean this is literally a whole thread of people making fun of her. it really feels the
same as people who hate anything that is popular among teen girls or young adult women because of internalized misogyny.

And i don't get the hate for "instagram poetry" either. it's just another platform. you're not better than anyone else because you write in a different format.
Personally, I don’t think Instagram is an effective medium to engage others with poetry, and I’ve never heard of poetry that originated on the platform ever achieve
any level of success off the platform.

I agree in some ways though. Rupi gets hate because she’s a) Indian and b) a woman. But I really think the poetry is boring and bad. Like there is no rhythm to her
words, the caesuras/breaks seem arbitrary, and I can rarely ever follow any of the structure or voice in her poems.
I was left feeling confused after reading the book. Meursault is a character that embodies absurdist ideals, and is Camus' mouthpiece for many of his philosophical
beliefs. However, am I supposed to therefore pardon him and feel pity for him in spite of his immoral crimes? Does morality not hold any meaning to Meursault and
am I supposed to be ok with his murders or his help to Raymond? Am I missing something? It seems to me that the book is giving license to immorality, under the
banner of nihilism. It is as though Camus is saying that since life is meaningless, therefore moral codes can be forsaken.
You're trying to find a rational takeaway or moral from the book in the same way the jury is trying to rationalize mersaults irrational action (ie he did it because he is
inhuman and a monster.) I think Camus probably intended this sort of struggle for the reader as well.

The book to me is about the irrationality/absurdity of the universe and peoples' struggle to reject that idea for something that makes them more comfortable. The
jury and the defense both struggle and fail to rationalize the irrational and none of them come to the conclusion that it just kind of happened. Mersault I don't think is
supposed to be pitied or demonized, he just is who he is and did what he did. Camus is famous for his existentialist and absurdist views and this book is definitely
no exception.
One of my favorite books!

I've always thought the idea of the book is simpler than many critics make it out to be. I think maybe he's just tired of life; tired of having to weigh pros/cons of the
choices life presents him and he just starts making impulsive decisions that you normally wouldn't make.

In the end, I think he's happy with the outcome of his choices because it was the end of monotony for him, regardless of how a *normal* person sees his almost
sociopathic-like behavior.

I like to imagine, sparked from his mother's death, that he was freeing himself from the inevitable fate of dying a monotonous death after living a long and
monotonous life.
The book’s message is anti-nihilist. The main character wastes his life because he refuses to embrace life passionately. In other words, Camus is saying that living
your life nihilistically is a choice, but not only is the nihilistic choice devoid of the passionate life found in pursuing meaning (or at least trying to) the choice to
pursue nihilism leads to boredom, lack of engagement, unhappiness and ultimately immoral actions (such as murder). Camus condemns the main character to
death for his crime, just as the crowd does—but, critically, the main character condemns himself by his choice to pursue his life nihilistically and accepts that fate at
the end of the book and tries to give the reader the message by saying something along the lines of “hoping the crowd would greet him at his execution with cries of
hate”-in other words, he accepts his wrongdoing and guilt in life which is not only the murder but the reasons for the murder—pursuing a meaningless life on
purpose, the worst crime of them all; the crime that causes all others.
IMO you're misunderstanding it.

>Meursault is a character that embodies absurdist ideals, and is Camus' mouthpiece for many of his philosophical beliefs.

IMO, neither of those assertions are true.

Meursault is a nihilist, and specifically in the shallow psychological sense of the term. That's not a position that Camus held, and I'm reasonably certain that a lot of
his intent was to oppose that position.

Most people - including a great many self-professed "nihilists" - misunderstand nihilism.

Technically, nihilism is merely the philosophical position that concepts like meaning and morality do not and in fact cannot possess *objective merit* - that they are
not intrinsic qualities of things, but are instead applied to things by people. "Nihilism," just in and of itself, doesn't comment on meaning or morality broadly - it
merely asserts that they are not and cannot be objective and intrinsic. In spite of the misapprehensions of many, that doesn't mean or even really imply that there is
and can be no meaning or morality at all. ALL it necessarily means is that any meaning or moral judgment one might attach to things is and can only be subjective.

And the significant thing, as far as that goes, is that the nominal fact that they're subjective and applied doesn't necessarily make them any less important. THAT is
the place at which many people go wrong. The common conception of nihilism, and what I'm referring to as the "shallow psychological sense of the term," is the
notion that life, and therefore the choices one might make, are and can only be entirely without any possible meaning. That, frankly, is obviously rubbish. People
attach profound meaning to life and to the choices one might make, so rather obviously, the nominal fact that that meaning is necessarily subjective is ultimately
irrelevant - it's no less "real" for being so.

And that, IMO, is the exact thing that Camus was really illustrating.

>However, am I supposed to therefore pardon him and feel pity for him in spite of his immoral crimes?

You're not "supposed to" do anything. You WILL judge him however you see fit, just as everyone else will, simply because you're human and that's what humans
do.

Again, that's (IMO) the point - you the reader almost certainly WILL attach meaning to his actions, and that even in spite of the fact that he himself does not.

Camus isn't saying that either one of those positions is the right or wrong one - he's simply illustrating the fact that they both exist.

>Does morality not hold any meaning to Meursault and am I supposed to be ok with his murders or his help to Raymond?

At least traditional morality appears to hold no meaning to Meursault. And that's rather obviously exactly how and why he's broken - how and why he acts in a
manner that is certainly not coincidentally seen to be grotesque not only by the officials, but by the readers, and in a manner that ultimately brings negative
consequences to him (though he appears not to care about those consequences either).

But again, you're not "supposed to" do anything. You WILL do what you will do, which is specifically to attach meaning and moral significance to his actions.

The mistake that you're making is expecting Camus to tell you that one or the other of those positions is the correct one. The conflict that you feel is because you
expect your own view of Meursault's actions to be somehow anointed as the correct one, and can't come to terms with the fact that Camus presents Meursault's
view, and much more to the point, that his view, alien though it is to virtually everyone, possesses some measure of internal consistency. That makes it seem as if
Camus is instead arguing for Meursault's view. And again, the reality is that he's not arguing for (or against) either one - he's simply illustrating the fact that they
both exist, and thereby illustrating the underlying fact that they're necessarily subjective. Neither Meursault's view nor the opposing one is or can be said to be the
"correct" one in any objective sense. His, grotesque though it might be, makes sense to him, just as yours (which is unsurprisingly shared by virtually everyone
outside of Meursault) makes sense to you. That's simply the way things are.

Broadly, it's not, by any stretch of the imagination, that Meursault's actions are somehow without any possible meaning and therefore irrelevant or excusable.
Rather, it's that Meursault saw no meaning in them himself, so to him, they self-evidently did not possess any meaning. To virtually everyone else involved, they
were profoundly meaningful, and almost certainly more to the point, they're almost certainly profoundly meaningful to the reader. And that, again, is, IMO, the point.
If you look at it solely through Meursault's eyes, you can understand (at least to some degree) how it is that his actions are, to him, essentially meaningless and
thus even, in a sort of back-handed way, justifiable, but at the same time, you, being a presumably empathetic and moral person, feel that his actions are very
significant, and likely disturbing and even horrifying and notably unjustifiable.

The ultimate point, IMO, is that neither of those positions is objectively correct. They simply both exist. Subjectively.

>It is as though Camus is saying that since life is meaningless, therefore moral codes can be forsaken.

No - not really. It sort of seems that way in the edgy adolescent Fight Club sense of "meaningless" and the narrowest sense of the word "can."

What he's actually saying that life is without *objective* meaning, and therefore moral codes *can* be forsaken. But he's also, and quite vividly, illustrating the fact
that people attach potentially profound meaning to life and to the choices one might make, and that moral codes self-evidently can and almost certainly will have a
profound influence both on how one acts and how others respond to ones actions.

Or more broadly, that meaning and morality are both necessarily subjective, but that rather obviously makes them no less important.
Camus' point is that life is essentially random, chaotic and meaningless, There is no higher meaning or cosmic truth. There is no cosmic order that guarantees
morality or guides correct action. However, this randomness does not absolve us from responsibility. We must forge our own meaning from the void, from absurdity.
As ethical beings, we cannot succumb to inertia, to contingency. Meursault has abandoned this responsibility. He refuses the fight. The book doesn't give license to
nihilism, it simply portrays what happens when you give up the struggle. Meursault's story is sort of a cautionary tale. It does, however, show that the society that
condemns him to death is no better than he is and by finally embracing the howls of the mob at the end he's achieved a kind of triumph over their hypocritical,
virtue-signaling 'morality.'
It's an interesting book because it seems to affect everyone differently. My take is that he's showcasing how sometimes murder isn't an act of insanely volatile
emotions - sometimes it happens due to various, conflicting, "absurd" circumstances. When he fires the gun, aside from A LOT of racism (which I'll leave for
another discussion, it does not read the same in 2021), he talks about how uncomfortable the heat is making him and how strange he feels. Then he watches the
other man brandish a knife, which scares him. Something like that? It's been awhile. So he fires the trigger...

The moment when he fires the gun, and the whole scene surrounding it, is purposefully ambiguous. It is as if the protagonist is in a fugue state. Earlier in the story,
we've watched him bury his own mother and feel somewhat indifferent...so you are lead to believe he is somewhat unfeeling, but is possibly bearing some deeply
sad emotions underneath the surface.

At the trial, you see how confused the narrator is by the court process. When he gets a death sentence he is baffled, and he feels helpless. All in all I thought the
point of the story was just that sometimes people get caught up in "absurd" circumstances. Even if what they did was technically evil, they are no-less confused
than any other audience member.
It doesn’t matter.
Enjoyable thread.
>However, am I supposed to therefore pardon him and feel pity for him in spite of his immoral crimes?

Not necessarily. The more interesting questions are about what actually constitutes morality. It provides food for thought, imo.

I don't think Merseault is intended to be an especially sympathetic character, beyond the basic level of sympathy that a human being in his situation deserves
(which will vary from reader to reader. I feel for him but only to a degree)

I think the book makes some good points about how people are treated based on seemingly arbitrary evidence. I also like the depiction of grief in the book. It's
pretty low key, but for some people (myself included) that's how it is. You don't always get crushed by grief immediately and gradually recover. Sometimes you don't
feel so much to start with, but mull over the grief over a period of years. That seems to be how Merseault is.
afaik you arent supposed to like Mersault. The book is about the monotony of typical working class life and the soulless shells that it produces, as well as the
lifeless bureaucracy that is the justice system. at least thats how i took it
One of the main thematic points of the book is that your opinions of him don't matter to his ethics- they are irrelevant to his existance. Think back to his mother's
funeral and how he couldn't cry and was later condemed for it at the trial. The protaganist was judged at the trial by everyone, some of it could be stated to be fair
and some of it was completely irrelevant to justice or who he was as a man. Let's not forget that Camus was a student of Sartre, and they both could be seen as the
creators of the idea of "Judge-Penitent". IMO, moral codes were not a theme of this book, they are irrelevant. I also find it interesting that this book's writing style
was very much like Hemmingway, Sartre stated that Camus had started writing like Hemmingway after he read him.
I think meursault represents the first half of camus’ philosophy. He represents the part of the philosophy that states that life lacks any inherent, objective meaning.
However he fails to respond to this lack of meaning in the way that Camus would propose. According to Camus, one should rebel against the absurdity of existence
by embracing life and living life as if it is profoundly meaningful. meursault on the other hand chooses the path of apathy and nihilism, and I do not think such a path
was meant to be portrayed as desirable.
Not to mention The Cure had to frequently explain the song "[Killing An Arab](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SdbLqOXmJ04)" because [people would wildly
misinterpret it based on the title alone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killing_an_Arab#Controversy).
the purpose wasn't to make you sympathise, the book is just about how absurd life is you're reading too much into it imo
"It is as though Camus is saying that since life is meaningless, therefore moral codes can be forsaken."

I think he advocates for each person to give their own life meaning, and find their own justification for the moral code instead of looking for it in some external
absolute like religion.

"Meursault is a character that embodies absurdist ideals, and is Camus' mouthpiece for many of his philosophical beliefs."

Absurdism was only a part of camus' philosophy, is my impression. If that were all, Camus would not be the liberal establishment's darling as he has been since his
death. Mersault and what happens to him (and what he causes to happen) are an illustration of the absurdity of life, the senselessness of it as embodied by the
>!taking of a life because of the sun's position in the sky and an uncomfortable lunch!<. But Mersault imo doesn't embody the more positive aspects of
existentialism (see Camus' Myth of Sisyphus and Beauvoir's Ethics of Ambiguity).

"It seems to me that the book is giving license to immorality, under the banner of nihilism. "

No it doesn't. It points out the absurdity that lies behind tragedies but I don't think the book excuses the taking of another's life.

Fwiw, Camus wrote an entire book against suicide while taking as one of its fundamental postulates that no external agent can give anybody's life meaning. We
give our own lives meaning, that's it. But this does not imply anything goes, and in fact, quite the opposite. I dunno if u read Beauvoir's Ethics of Ambiguity, but she
addresses your question specifically and argues that existentialism actually forces humans to be *more* moral and not less because we can't blame our bad
behavior on God or Society. Nowhere does any existentialist deny the existence of principles of right and wrong.
Along with some of the other great answers here, after reading it I had the urge to see what kind of diagnosis a person like Meursault would get nowadays. Turns
out The Stranger is essentially one of the first ever books to have someone deal with Asperger’s syndrome (edit: before Asperger’s syndrome had even been
defined). Here’s something to read on it if you’re interested: [Link.](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5903843/)
Quite the opposite. And remember that Camus risked his life in the Resistance. Mersault is no hero in the ordinary sense and Camus is not endorsing his character.

The book is revolutionary and can fill you with confusion. Here is something positive to say about Mersault. At the end, he accepts his fate and only hopes that the
witnesses to his execution will shout curses at him. They hate him, so that is the best that he can expect from them, but it is a form of connection and he seems very
human in his desire to connect with his fellow man during his final moments of life. I found that passage to be very moving
The entire book is about how people judge and perceive others without really knowing what they are perceiving, feeling and thinking.

One way to perceive the main character is that he is going through the stages of grief. That would be a natural *rationalization.* I'm pretty sure Camus is trying to
get people to realize that they are constantly making judgement of others that do not reflect the *reality* of that *individual*. Maybe he did just shoot him multiple
times because he saw it in a film.

If you've ever felt like a stranger in your own mind, a stranger in reality, then understanding this is easy. Most don't feel that way and see the absurdist, nihilistic
actualities because they are so set in their perspective they are completely incapable of seeing another's. The main character is practically an observer being
pushed around by reality and other peoples perceptions of him. "He didn't cry at his mothers funeral!" "He must be a psychopath!", etc. Camus is trying to show just
how psychotic and fervently certain the average person is.
Yes you're misunderstanding it.
Dostoyevsky does nihilists better. At least they're funny.
I've read the book 2 or 3 years ago and, for me, what stood out the most was how the jury condemns not the crime commited but how the character behaves, the
absurd part is how they (the jury) are so imprisoned by their own concept of how one should behave in a specific situation (the funeral of Meursault's mother in this
case) that they use the actual crime as a simple background for the sentence.
So what Meursault did was wrong but he was effectively found guilty because he didn't do what society says he should have done.
Did he murder in cold blood? I wouldn’t say so. I think it’s more about the grey area of life.
TL;DR Life is meaningless. You have to decide for yourself how much that bothers you. You can either let it consume you and be destroyed or choose to try to be
happy anyway.


I wouldn’t say I like Mersault, but he’s right about some things. He’s “enlightened” in his own way.
As in every important work, there’s a message behind the obvious. Don’t take it too literally.

Do you suppose Camus was giving a big thumbs-up to murder?
Lot's of good interpretations here. My French teacher assigned this to me in the 10th grade (US, 15 yrs old at the time). I think she was trolling me.
I recommend the Meursault Investigations! It’s a sequel and it carries a lot of the same motifs

Try to look into who he was inspired from .... To write the story .. it was a friend of his ... You would be amazed ...
Sometimes we struggle to find meaning where there is none.
Great timing on this thread as I just finished it a few weeks ago. Since Michael Malice endorses it every time I listen to him I figured it was worth a go.

What's interesting about this stuff is that while people have their own view of what Camus was going for, in the end that doesn't really matter. What matters is what
you got out of it. It's interesting to me that everyone's focus here is on Mersault, whereas my focus wasn't that he was the bad guy, but rather that the jury was.
Perhaps this is due to the fact that I'm a lawyer and a libertarian, but the great story here to me is that the man is being persecuted for not being who everyone
wants him to be, not for what he actually did.

The funny part about moralizing Mersault is that I don't really feel like he's a bad guy for the killing. I can understand and get behind that. It's his befriending
Raymond that makes him an awful guy.

Mersault is only a secondary character in my mind. He's noncommittal, but he's committed to being noncommittal. I liked that. Anyways, it's a strange time in my life
reading this book as I recently left an opportunity I had in the military(I've got a million jobs) that everyone is upset at me for doing because it's a pretty unique
opportunity given my civilian employment. These people who all loved me and the work I did before, are upset I'm not being the "better" person they want me to be.
But I don't want it, and my jury is upset at me for not being who they expect me to be.

Mersault's noncommittal attitude is hard to grok sometimes and my girlfriend was hugely annoyed by him when I talked about it to her, but I get into these dark
places sometimes where I'm not going to kill myself. I'm not suicidal, but I'll feel very clearly like I'm ready to die. I'm just tired and ready to go. It isn't the same
thing, but it's in the same ballpark.
No you aren't supposed to feel pity for him. No moral code is preached in The Stranger. Just the malaise of existence.
Read this book in 10th grade for English what a trip down memory lane.

From what I remember Meursault is devoid of emotions and feelings. On his own accord tho if I’m not mistaken, i don’t think he physically lost the power to feel.
With this Camus wants to show this is wrong. Like you can’t just live life with no emotions. Even if you want to say emotions are subjective they’re still there.
The way it was taught to me, is that Mersault isn't condemned for the murder, he's condemned for not crying at his mother's funeral. Based on The Myth of
Sisyphus, I would say the theme is that once one accepts the inevitability of death and meaninglessness of existence, the absurdity at the heart of Absurdism,
you're able to choose your own's life's meaning.

Mersault rejects the religious salvation offered by the chaplain and realizes that it really doesn't matter if he dies tomorrow or in a nursing home like his mother, at
which point he accepts his fate. He's transcended the fear of death and is ready to face off against the hordes of people who cling to conformity to avoid facing the
Absurd, as Mersault has done.

TBH, I didn't really like the book either.
Wait since when did morality have a meaning?
Death just shows the ultimate absurdity of life - AJ Soprano
You are trying to find morality in a book that was purposely written to show absurdity. There are no corresponding events that show morality is a theme. His
neighbor is a woman beater who Mersault is willing to fight for and the protagonist ends up killing the Arab who initially followed this neighbor. The other dying ,
ugly, and weak neighbor beats his dog, perhaps as a reaction to his own impotence. Mersault judges none of them. He is judged by others for not crying at his
mother's funeral (hardly immoral and Mersault explicitly and logically explains why he didn't cry). The prosecutors and judge make judgements on every aspect of
his life, regardless of morality, but in an absurd matter. The protagonist never has remorse or guilt, he never changes from the the dramatic and absurd events that
happen to him. This was all done purposely by Camus to set up the main theme of judgement.

&#x200B;

Contrary to his previous books, I believe that Camus meant for the protagonist not to be the judge penitent, but to be something of a mirror for the others who judge
him. This isn't realistic, as we are all judge-penitents, there is no way to avoid it, but it was used as a vehicle in this book. Mersault has no judgement of others, no
overriding emotions, no regrets and no penitence. However he is judged extensively by others in an effort to show the judge penitent relationship towards this
mirror. Of course at the trial he was judged for not crying at his mother's funeral. He was judged by his boss. He was even judged by the chaplin who told him that
he must be penitent or he will go to hell. Throughout the entire book Mersault still remains stoic, not showing much emotion, penitence, remorse, or judgement. He
was a mirror to make the two valid points....

&#x200B;

While in prison Mersault thinks back to the sensual encounters with his girlfriend on the beach, to his now dead mother, and ultimately to his death in days to come.
He realized how beautiful life is and that he would be perfectly happy to just exist and enjoy life- even if he spent eternity curled up looking at the stars. He felt no
need to judge others.The themes of the book are that life must be lived and to appreciate timelessness and the second theme is the judge-penitent relationship that
he is exposed to but that he himself has rejected doing to others. Again, the last, and perhaps most important, line of the book, ***"I had only to wish that there be a
large crowd of spectators the day of my execution and that they greet me with cries of hate."*** Why wouldn't they, this absurd judging has been prevelant through
Mersault's life, he has no desire to change it.

&#x200B;

I've read and thought about this book quite a bit as I love books and my brother is serving a natural life sentence, its in my top 10 for sure.

&#x200B;

A little irrelevant corresponding music for you.... [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SdbLqOXmJ04](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SdbLqOXmJ04)
Compassion is the basis for all morality- Schopenhauer
Death just shows the ultimate absurdity of life - AJ Soprano
It’s been a LONG time since I read “The Stranger”, but as I recall, Mersault crime wasn’t premeditated, it was an accident (I recall him mentioning the sun bothering
him when the victim was shot). Mersault, as a character, is unemotional, and because he is unemotional, he is not “normal”. It’s because he’s not normal that he is
sentenced to die…So my main take away, when I read the book, was that society fears members of society that don’t fit what is considered “normal” behavior. I
don’t think you’re supposed to feel bad for him, existentialist literature is pretty dry and emotionless. I think Existentialists are against the death penalty, so that’s the
main message of the book…. I’m expecting a bunch of replies that everything I wrote is wrong.
Camus is pretty clear that Meursault kills the Arab because the Arab's knife makes the sun glint on his eyes.

He doesn't really worry about reasons or the future... he just lives in the moment. Think about how he embraces the moment when he emerges from prison to be
executed, or the moment he is sitting outside in the shade people-watching.

I dunno... did you think it was good? Then yeah you're misunderstanding it. If you thought it was bad, then no you're right on target, because it is.
I've never met a single person who loves Camus that isn't insufferable to be around.
I just read this book for the first time and loved it, though I'm not really sure why. I emphasized with Meursault and felt sorry for the man. He reminded me of myself
(especially when his girlfriend was asking him if he wanted to marry her).
I probably missed the intended moral of the story because when I finished it all I could think of was how unfairly Mersault had been treated and how nobody really
understood him. I thought of how similar he and I are and began to worry that maybe the same fate awaits me, somehow.
I don't like the book either I don't get it. I'm on your side.
the point of this book is to look cool reading it out on the quad
I had to read this in high school. Didn’t like it, definitely went over my head. I was an avid reader through college, but never understood why teachers assigned
books that require so much life experience to truly understand. Would love to re-read it as an adult.
Hello, strangers.
the way he was prosecuted fits in even today, i read (true life ) stories all the time where the defense or the prosecutor, they dont really have a case so they try to
make the trial about a bunch of irrelevent (to the trial) bullshit somebody did, that makes em look bad.
Camus was an atheist and if there's no God and no absolute truth everything is relative and the word morality is just that, a word. People can say things are moral
or immortal; someone else could just as easily say other things are moral or immoral or that such concepts and merely our own making
Meuersault isn't even with it enough to say "I thought the Arab had a knife."
It reminds me of the reaction to the Kennedy assassination. There is a cosmic balance in people's minds and the thought that some loser who just decided to kill
the president and was able to pull it off doesn't balance the outcome. It needs a conspiracy, some great evil to balance it. The universe should follow moral rules
and not be a series of semi-random events.
This is the best response. It doesn't have a fixed meaning, that's why it affects people.
And struggle I did. D:
Does it though? Camus was a moralist. He was a moral and political activist and hence I don't think one should interpret The Stranger on such amoral grounds. If
so, the same could have been said about the Nazi movement, for some being something monstrous and for others defensible. Camus, in such instances, does not
take an amoral ground, he emphatically denounces murder. That's the whole gist of his "The Rebel". He makes a rational case against murder.
Camus was an atheist and if there's no God and overarching truth words like morality and immorality are just human constructs. What you say is moral I can say is
immoral or I could simply say that there are no such things.
I strongly disagree you. Your point rests on a premise that Camus wrote the book to have multiple interpretations and he did this by intentionally making the book
vague, ambiguous and—just generally—hard to understand. Your answer, really, is just throwing-up your hands and saying “Guys, Mersault is just ‘who he is and
did what he did’ .” Camus was a philosopher, he wouldn’t set-out with an intention of just writing down something so silly.
Spot on!
Great response!
One of my favorites too and I agree with everyone’s great analysis and it’s broadened my understanding of the book, but I’m a bit surprised to see so little talk of the
penultimate scene with the priest.

I agree that in the end Merseult is happy, or at least he’s found meaning, but it’s only brought on by the Priest. Metseult has many initial prejudices against the
priest, but when he quickly breaks them— primarily by not trying to convert Merseult and also not condemning him harshly, if I remember correctly— it challenges
Merseult’s ideals and causes him to argue with the priest. This argument is basically the only time Merseult puts in any effort, and eventually breaks down when the
priest won’t hate him.

I think the priest, someone Merseult sees as/expects to be good but doesn’t respect, reaffirms his nihilistic beliefs by not condemning him but also confronts it by
saying he has meaning, all causes Merseult to reevaluate his life. When he celebrates his coming death I think it’s partly done in spite of the priest, and obviously
the tragic ending that the first time he feels passionately about something is when he’s going to be executed. The priest succeeds in some way though, finally
making Merseult care.
>The book’s message is anti-nihilist. The main character wastes his life because he refuses to embrace life passionately. In other words, Camus is saying that
living your life nihilistically is a choice, but not only is the nihilistic choice devoid of the passionate life found in pursuing meaning (or at least trying to) the choice to
pursue nihilism leads to boredom, lack of engagement, unhappiness and ultimately immoral actions (such as murder).

To me, the point that hammers this home the most is when he's ~~sitting in jail~~ in his apartment at the beginning of the book and talks about how he just learned
of the death of his mother, and basically has no reaction whatsoever and then starts talking about something else entirely without skipping a beat.

Also, at his mother's funeral, the only thing he's really concerned about is that its raining and the rain is annoying to him. If I remember correctly, he even mentions
how bored he is during the entire thing.

After all the awful shit that happens in the book that he has no reaction to, even the death of his own mother can't jar any feelings loose inside of him.

Edit: corrected the detail about when he learns of his mother's death and added the detail about his mother's funeral.
Ahhh that makes so much more sense. Thanks for blessing my small brain!!
I never really made the full connection as a high school senior; i understood but didn't really grasp the deeper meaning. Even 4 years later when i w rote a paper
comparing this murder to the one in Richard Wright's \*Native Son\*.
This is a very good rundown.
That's a quality comment, thanks.
Read this book decades ago also had problems. Sometimes I think about it. TY for explanation.
>Again, that's (IMO) the point - you the reader almost certainly WILL attach meaning to his actions, and that even in spite of the fact that he himself does not.

Finally! Somebody who actually understands the book!
This is a well thought out response, but I think highlights a great contradiction, if your point is to be understood as Camus's. The thing is that Camus was very
explicitly and intensely moralist. He defended certain notions and rejected others not on mere subjective grounds but treating them as objective. So objective he
wrote a book to reject murder. This isn't an "this is how I happen to view things" but rather "this is how things are and you should not murder as murder is
incoherent". This then takes a further moral stance beyond the rational into political activist.


Camus would see becoming a political activist as stupid for someone who merely holds that as a personal subjective preference, for there's sacrifice inherent in
political activism. He defends the heroism of those activists who suffer out of their convictions. Camus would not be someone to devaluate such sacrifice as a mere
personal preference but he rather defends it as true heroism, a heroism that he admires and wishes to emulate. This is not perceived on the same rational or moral
grounds as say, Nazi, who acts contrary to his own existential quest for life-affirmation. One cannot reconcile Camus's political activism and this nihilist view. Even
positive nihilism fails on such accounts, and Camus understood it. He is not a rationalist, he places the intensity of life at the center as properly valid. Not as a
preference but as the center of everything, and in this, actually creates an objective meaning. Nietzsche does the same thing, which is why I would not account
either as nihilistic(positive or negative). They both affirm life as a value greater than the individual and beyond the individual.
For some odd reason, I thought that Camus was glorifying Meursault. This makes so much more sense. Thank you!
Underrated comment
one of the best so far since I joined a few months ago
Great art brings great discussion. The Stranger is one of my faves and I’m having a great time in this thread too.
This was absolutely my impression of the character too. Meursault seemed disconnected from his emotions but I did not get the sense it was by choice. (A chosen
world-view/philosophy that played itself out to a tragic and predictable end.)
I read it as a sad story of an undiagnosed high-functioning autistic man.
Wow, that's interesting. Do you think that is why he made the comment that there is nothing more important than an execution and that it was the only thing a man
could truly be interested in?
I don't think Meursault cared enough to be a nihilist
I mean can you blame the guy? The sun was in his eyes!
Wasn't he blinded by the sun and sort of accidentally fired his gun as he was all flustered/angry?
There is nothing grey about what he does. He kills a man for no reason, and does not seek to defend his behaviour. It is about as cold blooded as things get.
Thats rough. It must have left a great impression on you
nah. you shoot someone once, maybe youre not a bad guy. you do it 5 more times, for no reason, youre a bad guy.
It’s not that Meursault isn’t with it, he just doesn’t care.
Shit, this reminds me of a monologue from someone I can't remember, where they explain that people want there to be a shadow group controlling everything
because the idea of it just being chaotic is too hard for people to reconcile. If anyone knows what I'm talking about, please link it.

It feels like something James Spader would've said in Blacklist, but I'm not sure. That's kinda ironic considering the premise of the show is that there is a shadow
government controlling everything. I'm probably just misremembering.
I just want to add that you're looking at it too linearly.

The author shows me this character's perspective, therefore I need to align with it.

Why do you think you need to think this way?

I see a lot of people make the same mistake across genres and mediums. Come at it from another angle.
It could also be read as a cautionary tale against fully surrendering to the absurdity of the world. Rather than letting events just unfold it could be worth taking more
agency over your life and embracing mankind's fabricated order, even in a chaotic universe.

For me I personally got a lot of different (sometimes conflicting) things out of this book.
This is correct, the main thematic point of the book is the "judge-penitent" which had nothing directly to do with morals.
He sees the average person as the problem. They are caught up in their own perception and are not fair judges of others. One can always string together things to
create a narrative much like they do at his expense in the stranger but that does not reflect his reality.
Yes, but Camus unequivocally admits that his French-centric morality is grounded in nothing, in The First Man.
In the same stroke, he also acknowledges the legitimacy of his beliefs. This encapsulates the absurdist's struggle to find meaning while acknowledging the futility of
that pursuit.
Yeah, from what I remember Camus' big thing was having a visceral reaction against the absurdity. The stranger is supposed to give the reader a reaction; not to be
a defense of immortality. The fact that we react against it is part of the hope for Camus.

Honestly, I don't think existentialism/absurdism successfully avoids the morality problem, but at least Camus figured out a way that worked for him.
That's fine, I could be wrong. It's just what I took away from the book.
I think there's a Camus quote to the effect of "the point of the novel was that any man who doesn't cry at his mother's funeral could be condemned to death," which
is a succinct way to put it.
That w as before he was in jail
This is a big part of the trial, in fact, the trial has very little to do at all with the murder. The whole trial is painting a picture of Meursault being a terrible person since
he didn't mourn the death of his mother and went out. That he shot the Arab multiple times after he was down as if life meant nothing to him. They talked about how
after the murder he continued his life as normal rather than panicking over killing someone.


The trial was never about the murder, they were putting the main character on trial for the way he lives his life and how he is so different. "Stranger" can be taken to
mean "the one who is strange" which is again what they are judging him by rather than the circumstances of the murder.
why is that bad?
IMO, you make two mistakes here, and two that virtually every critic of nihilism and/or advocate of moral realism makes.

The first is to hold that subjectivity is some sort of flaw or failure, rather than simply an unavoidable aspect of a thing that's ultimately wholly conceptual.

And the second is to hold that providing sufficient support for a subjective conclusion to make it virtually undeniably the most sound conclusion somehow elevates it
so the status of an objective conclusion.

>He defended certain notions and rejected others not on mere subjective grounds but treating them as objective.

No - he defended or rejected them on subjective grounds - there literally is no other choice when dealing with things that are purely conceptual. To the degree that
his arguments succeed, it's because they're notably sound - NOT because they've somehow managed to push morality over into being somehow objective.

Again, the mistake you're making is believing that a "subjective" conclusion is somehow inherently inferior to an "objective" one - that if a conclusion is "merely"
"subjective," that indicates some sort of failure, and one must instead strive to somehow make it "objective" in order to be able to consider it valid. And, alongside
that, that if one does manage to arrive at a conclusion that's notably sound, that somehow elevates it to being "objective."

Ironically, you're applying a subjective value judgment to the whole concept of subjectivity and objectivity - treating it as if it's a measure of the value of the thing
under consideration, rather than, as it actually is, as simply a descriptor that indicates whether the thing is an "object," which is to say, something that has some
perceivable, measurable existence in the external world, or is a "subject," which is to say, something that can only be conceptualized - something that only exists in
the mind.

>Camus would see becoming a political activist as stupid for someone who merely holds that as a personal subjective preference, for there's sacrifice inherent in
political activism.

No he wouldn't, because he understood that subjectivity did not somehow diminish moral judgments (and again, that's much of the point of The Stranger).

>Camus would not be someone to devaluate such sacrifice as a mere personal preference but he rather defends it as true heroism, a heroism that he admires and
wishes to emulate.

This is true - he would not. But that's because he understood that holding that moral judgments are subjective doesn't in any way devalue them.

Yes - he assigned value to such sacrifices. AND he held that that value was subjective. The exact point is that he didn't see a contradiction between those two
things. YOU (and all those who share your view) are the ones who devalue things because they're subjective. He, on the other hand, understood that the fact that
they're subjective doesn't in any way diminish them.

>he places the intensity of life at the center as properly valid. Not as a preference but as the center of everything, and in this, actually creates an objective meaning

No - he creates a notably sound and compelling subjective value. That it's notably sound and compelling doesn't somehow magically elevate it to the level of
objectivity - it's still, and in fact can only be, subjective.

AND THAT'S OKAY. It's not a bad thing. It's not a failure. It's just a quality of a thing that's wholly conceptual.

Subjective and objective are not value judgments - they're just qualities that things necessarily possess.
This is an interesting analysis, but I don't agree with this take. Meursault shoots the man, yes, but that same man had already stabbed someone and flashes the
knife at Meursault before being shot. That's not exactly cold-blooded murder, and it's not actually clear that Camus is suggesting that the shooting of the brother is
incoherent. If we swap out Meursault for someone else, we can pretty easily see how that same situation would feel very threatening.

You've already witnessed one stabbing, and you're alone on an unfamiliar beach, possibly suffering from heat exhaustion, when you run across the assailant. When
he sees you, he flashes a knife at you--presumably the same one used to stab your friend, earlier. Is a shooting in that situation actually absurd/incoherent?

I think that the problem is less with the shooting (whether or not one thinks shooting in self defense is 100% justified), and more with how detached Meursault is
before, during, and after the shooting. There's never a doubt that Meursault shot and killed the man, and the book seems a *lot* less concerned with the moment of
the shooting than it is with who Meursault is and why he receives the punishment he ends up with. I don't think that the book is about how murder is incoherent, but
about how *Meursault* is. Ultimately, he's put to death because of it.
It's totally understandable, after all it's written from his point of view.
people make that mistake sometimes, that they think just because someone's the focus of a story, or its from their POV, that the author endorses everything they
do.
Yes! Our ultimate demise is something that Camus thought should be uppermost in our consciousness!
that would make him the prefect nihilist, wouldnt it?
seriously, every time its sunny out i fuckin kill someone
Ah yes!! I remember now. He thought he was about to be shot?
He shot the guy, then shot him 5 more times as he was dying. Not accidental.
I need to read it again. It’s been a while. I always thought he got threatened. Then days later he was approached on the beach again by the men.
‘Disoriented and on the edge of heatstroke, Meursault shoots when the Arab flashes his knife at him.’
Like a philosophical time bomb lodged in my brain. The meaning of life = the choices you make.
Fair point. I can see a normal person doing it out of adrenaline and stress. But that didn't exactly apply to Mersault.
Yeah, i'm one of those odd birds (smock! smock!) to whom those 2 things are much the same, sorry.
Eating that breakfast straight out of the pan, plates are meaningless extra work
Two quotes come to my mind;

 "The main thing that I learned about conspiracy theory, is that conspiracy theorists believe in a conspiracy because that is more comforting. The truth of the world
is that it is actually chaotic. The truth is that it is not The Iluminati, or The Jewish Banking Conspiracy, or the Gray Alien Theory.

The truth is far more frightening - Nobody is in control.

The world is rudderless."

Alan Moore

The other one i cant find but i remember it a bit because i thought it made sense:

"It is very human to assign meaning to events that are completely random"
House MD (probably my memory is pretty far off because i cant find it googling. )
It reminds me of [this SMBC](https://www.smbc-comics.com/comic/in-charge), but probably many others made similar observations/jokes.
The Russians did it!
Best I could find

https://time.com/3422083/jfk-conspiracy-theories/
I'm quick to align myself with whatever narrative an article is painting so this is a cool thing to keep in mind. Thanks
> It could also be read as a cautionary tale against fully surrendering to the absurdity of the world. Rather than letting events just unfold it could be worth taking
more agency over your life and embracing mankind's fabricated order, even in a chaotic universe.

Yes, I agree with this. The point is if we do not take the responsibility to define morality for ourselves, then we will be defined by what we allow to happen.
Camus would definitely agree with taking more agency. That responsibility is central to his worldview. The surrender of the absurd would usually either be suicide or
religion, that is a coping mechanism. Social conformity which indeed erodes responsibility, would indeed be a way to surrender to the absurd without conquering it,
but that's not Mersault. Mersault, in a way, seems to transcend the absurd in a very controversial way for he defies his society by not conforming to its rhythm, but
also not taking responsibility for his own rhythm. He does things out of the inertia of his own nature. He has no creative power(not directly a main theme in Camus)
but he's still living outside the absurd. His disposition is not a coping mechanism, but it's not actively conquering the absurd by confronting it either. He lives outside
the absurd by not caring for his actions(and hence no longer seeking an ultimate meaning in them) but not conquering it. So I think you're on to something.

> It could also be read as a cautionary tale against fully surrendering to the absurdity of the world. Rather than letting events just unfold it could be worth taking
more agency over your life and embracing mankind's fabricated order, even in a chaotic universe.

This also was my key takeaway from the book. Living like nothing matters makes no sense
The judge-penitent idea is on the Fall, though. I'm not sure what you mean. The Rebel definitely had to do with morals and do did the Stranger. The Rebel is a
moralistic book that deals with murder and the revolution. How is that not moral?
He cannot account for them in a rational sense. He's not a rationalist. Yet he AFFIRMS them as true even if rationally not defensible. He sees all passion as non-
rational even within a rational framework. The ultimate passion of man is in relation to the Absurd for it is in relation to his own condition. Yet, he doesn't concern
with that, not because he likes being contradictory but because he affirms his moral nature as true even if not rational. He was not embracing the contradiction, I
believe, but passion over intellect, which given his own nature was very clear. To me, he doesn't seem to say: "it doesn't make sense and I believe it", but "I believe
in the fraternity of man in a way that I cannot account for in rational terms."
Wasn't this Camus being critical of the justice system, and how it can't tease apart the subtleties in how different people emote? I always felt the book was a critique
of the justice system rather than of how this character lived. Although I haven't read it in over ten years.
I got the opposite moral which was Camus condemning everybody else by showing how certain they are of their moral 'right' that they would condemn a man by
stringing together a narrative that works but does not actually resemble his reality, which is the readers case as an outside observer, is the truth of what happened.

We can glimpse into Mersaults mind, they cannot, we know how he is thinking and feeling and then we see it juxtaposed with the others moral righteousness.
Oh, man, my bad.

Now that you say that, I do remember its when he's still in his apartment and I think it might even be the first thing he talks about at length (been at least a decade
since I last read it, so forgive me).

Either way, his lack of emotion to his mother's death is a great example of what Fast_Pay was talking about.
>"Stranger" can be taken to mean "the one who is strange" which is again what they are judging him by rather than the circumstances of the murder.

I owned a copy of the book where the title was translated to The Outsider rather than The Stranger, and I think that is a much more apt description of Meursault.

He's a complete and total outsider because he has almost no emotion or attachment to anything.

His only 'friend' in the book is a guy he hears beating his girlfriend through the walls of his flat throughout the beginning of the book and he is completely indifferent
to it. When they start 'hanging out' he talks about how he doesn't even really like the guy, but there's a point where he almost gets to be good friends with the guy,
which is why they go on vacation.

So the entire murder essentially happens because he decides to actually try to have a friend out of boredom even if he doesn't really care for him, and having that
friend is what places him on that beach with that gun.

For such a short and simple book, it's really is an intriguing story when all the bits and pieces are laid out and it stays with you.
I do uphold that a lack of subjectivity in a given field is a failure. One does not expect objectivity in preferences, but morality is intellectually distinct to preference in
such a way. But I do not wish to make that claim. I was careful to note that Camus ACTS as if morality were real; of course, him acting as if his morality were
objective does not in fact make it objective, and I understand that. You can still maintain a nihilistic view but it would not be Camus's view(or a coherent view).


I want to emphasize: I am not claiming that Camus's subjective activism makes it objective, but it makes it irreconcilable with nihilism. The only way to reconcile
both is to agree that the weight attributed to the moral judgements is a faux weight and in truth it has the same standing as ordinary preferences and/or that the
activism of a social(inter-subjective) nature is maintained merely by the individual's preference. I think that maybe "The Fall" hints at that. But more importantly than
either of our positions is that I am sure Camus would agree with me. If you read him, he does act like his position were beyond himself. It is not a mere preference
or activity of personal meaning but that takes place in a larger dimension of theatrical meaning where the individual is not sovereign but a player with assigned
categories(although not roles).



\> And, alongside that, that if one does manage to arrive at a conclusion that's notably sound, that somehow elevates it to being "objective."


It does. Why? Because the soundness and hence the merit of the act was not placed there by the individual. Soundness and rationality are objective and Camus
would agree(notwithstanding his non-rationalism), which is why he criticizes positions by virtue of their own irrationality(Sade, for example). He implies: Sade
cannot be sovereign for his actions are still framed within rationality(an operational order) within the psychology and hence his actions are contradictory(and being
contradictory is wrong and condemnable). In other words, Sade has no place being Sade despite him being Sade, for Sade carries within his negation. To be Sade
is to reject Sade, and yet to reject Sade opens the way for Sade to be what Sade means Sade to be.


\> Yes - he assigned value to such sacrifices. AND he held that that value was subjective. The exact point is that he didn't see a contradiction between those two
things.


I think he did. The issue is not assigning values to things or sacrificing things in place of other values. It's clear that a nihilistic can put a subjective frame of action in
which there are judgements. However, the nature of such judgements and the sense of value speaks of the nature of that framing. Camus does not think, for
example, that the actions of the pacifists was of the type of value of preference; it would be quite puzzling for someone to go life imprisonment in the name of that
preference(or the preference of rebelling in such terms). A nihilist has to say: "don't take things too seriously; it is fine to play, to take things with a theatrical sense
of seriousness, but not with an actual seriousness, don't actually destroy your life because of the game." I think that Camus understand this and that's why he wrote
The Fall, and why he told the members of the existentialist cafes that maybe they had it wrong. If you notice the Fall, the protagonist is such a nihilist: he plays both
sides as both are part of the game. The protagonist pretends to believe in what he claims to believe, but he doesn't actually believe in it; it is all just a game for
social leverage. It's all appearances and play, theatre not life.


Now, you may ask: why is subjectively valuing something devalue it? It devalues it from the assigned apparent value. If that's the value it's meant to have, then it's
not devalued. It is devalued in relative terms. To take a moral value and take it as a preference means to change its value and the value is, in a hierarchy of general
values, lower, for one expects one to die for a moral noble cause, but one does not expect one to die because of an ordinary preference. Even if there were no true
objective moral actions and what we refer to as morality is the mere subjective preference within a given context, in a rational sense the notion of morality is distinct
from that, so the one who argues that morality lacks its moral weight and it's rather a subjective weight of preference needs, in order to not devalue the category, to
treat that preference in a special way, separate from the rest of preferences. But nihilists don't do that; I would argue that they can't do that for a preference is still a
preference and the nature of its own category is unavoidably distinct from that of the (traditionally) defined moral action. This, I would repeat, is something Camus
became starkly aware of. There was some hidden contradiction in the existentialists, a lack of seriousness that permeated even their most serious actions.
Yes. About Meursault but from an absurd position, which is also a moral one. He intended the Stranger to be read alongside Sisyphus and Caligula. If you
understand the image of Caligula(immorality) you understand Camus's concern. Of course, his moral concern is not traditional; for him, Caligula is even somewhat
of a hero. A tragic hero, a hero forced to be a villain, but one who is deeply honest even when being absolutely evil.
The Mersault Investigation, a novel by Kamel Daoud, is written from the perspective of the family of the murder victim in Camus' novel. I loved it, but it is heavy!
This is very Japanese, too; the idea that your whole life is basically preparing for death.
I don't think so. I was mostly being facetious because his defense for why he shot 5 times instead of once was "the sun was in my eyes". It's absurd, and kind of
hilarious.
The whole point of the trial was they had to assess his character because it wasn't obvious that he killed them intentionally. He claimed he was flustered and fired
blindly.
Quote the novel, not wikipedia.
That's definitely it, however I feel like I remember a much more dramatized version on TV or something. Thank you though!
"There I was, in a vast wilderness. It had been three days since I had last seen civilization. I wander, what I once searched for, I can no longer recall. At least I did
not hunger, for the wilds were fruitful.

Enjoying the last of the sweet ripened jungle pear, I clasped my hands together. As they stuck, in that moment I remembered quite vividly what I sought. It was not
fame fortune or riches, but simply a towelette to clean my hands. The world had long since disposed of the last of the throwaway_towelettes, yet I hope to find one
remaining. Eventually, somewhere."
It's definitely a natural thing to do! And lots of writers will leverage that to push their story and their audience in certain directions. There's nothing wrong with
identifying with a true hero, but try not to fall into it carelessly.
The last, and perhaps, most important sentence of the book.... "I had only to wish that there be a large crowd of spectators the day of my execution and that they
greet me with cries of hate."

That is not a story of morality, but of judging and its relation to penitence.
What do you think the trial was for? It was the same themes as the judge-penitent, it is no different. Would you judge the protagonist in what way? Because he shot
and killed a man who pulled a knife on him? Because he didn't cry at his mother's funeral? The protganist had no hate, no love, no anything. He was a clean sheet
who was judged and accepted it as part of his existance. That was the point. I don't see any moral as it was purposely written to be seen ad absurdum.
It’s been a while since I read it too, but I remember thinking it was to highlight the absurdity of human nature to take the court case from an objective question, “was
this murder or was this self defense” to an emotional response of “he is a bad person and therefore guilty and sentenced to death”
Camus was deeply critical of the justice system and was a staunch opponent of capital punishment ("Reflections on the Guillotine" lays out his viewpoint very
clearly). I don't remember much of that making its way into *The Stranger*\* though - it really struck me more as an exploration of Meursault's inner life (or lack
thereof). Which is odd because the plot is touches on various social issues that Camus felt very strongly about (capital punishment, colonialism, etc.) but doesn't
really explore them to a great extent. Or at least it doesn't feel that way, given that Meursault doesn't feel strongly or think deeply about any of it.

Like you though, I haven't read the book in a very long time, so I may not be remembering it correctly.

\*Anyone else read it in French and hate this translation of the title? As a child of colonialism (like Meursault, and Camus for that matter) I always felt like it should
have been *The Foreigner* instead.
Yeah, my takeaway (also over ten years ago) was that he was convicted because he didn’t act like a normal person. The jury was more concerned with deciding
whether or not he fit in with society than if he actually killed someone. Though I took it to be more about how people in general judge each other based on whether
a person’s actions are socially acceptable, not just the justice system.
Could very well be both!
Can't it be both? I think it's quite deliberate how he is contrasting his character - who lacks emotions when he should have them - with a justice system that is
fueled by emotion when it should instead be completely objective.
> it would be quite puzzling for someone to go life imprisonment in the name of that preference

Why?

From my personal view, preferences and objective facts are equally important to *me*. I don't expect others to care about things that are just my preference, but as
long as it's just me there is no real difference.

To give one extreme example, my own life is, again, to me, many times more important than any other life, despite the fact that objectively that cannot hold. It is a
pure preference. Just, a rather strong one.

> in a hierarchy of general values, lower, for one expects one to die for a moral noble cause, but one does not expect one to die because of an ordinary preference

You're basically taking your own stance as a premise here. If you assume that objective value is of greater value than subjective value, then of course you can
derive that exact statement. The problem is that if you don't assume that to hold, then your argument falls apart.

And to be perfectly clear, I am only pointing out (perceived) flaws in your argument. I don't know Camus very well myself, and refrain from making any judgement
about what he believes. However, I do feel your specific argument is rather poor. In particular, I strongly object to the notion that a person believing in subjective
morality must necessarily behave differently than a person believing in objective morality.
someone actually took it on themselves to do that??? shit
Does it come from religion?
Actually, I remember from french class that the way the murder scene is written does hold the sun responsible for the first shot, and the following shots are
Meursault's response to the first one. I don't remember what leads to that conclusion exactly, but yeah.
I think that was his excuse for the first shot, but it's pretty transparent in the whole second act that he did it intentionally. The fact that he did it for no reason is why
the court/jury is so disturbed by him.
I’m just trying to explain why I mentioned self-defence..

I would have to re-read it. I don't remember Mersault judging society, just living outside its standards and being judged. The notion of judge-penitent has to do(in my
analysis) with the dialectical relationship of guilt in a guilty society. Theme explored in "The Kingdom and the Exile" and "The Fall". But, if it's true that Mersault was
meant to highlight that notion it gives way to a different interpretation.


I think that one cannot avoid the moral aspect because of Camus's attitude. He was heavily moralistic and so were his writings. I don't think we ought to have been
neutral to it, but to lead to a given realization. As the topic was of murder, I tie it with his position on murder on "The Rebel". If it's true that it is amoral perceived in
a moral frame by the judge-penitent, then that would go counter to Camus's own activism as it would imply the (im)morality of Nazism would equally be a different
form of the dialectical expression of guilt, not fundamentally different to the activism he propounds. Reading him, it's clear that he saw activism as truly heroic and
not merely an alleviation of the guilty in a guilty society judging the guilt of others. He thinks of himself as that, I think, but not certain heroes, like those who refused
to commit violence even when threatened with life imprisonment.
Pourquoi pas les deux?
I'm probably being reductive here and it's been years since I've read the book but the French society in which Camus lived also might have given the murder of an
Arab in the book's setting of French occupied Algeria a pass due to colonialism/racism, so the fact that Meursault is indeed still condemned was likely provocative
for that reason. He would have needed very little defense to lean into that angle but doesn't bother with it either. So the book is also (not so?) subtly condemning
colonialism/racism too. I remember that being one of my big takeaways when I read it. Like you said, I think that would be a good alternate translation of the title too.
Doesn't the French title have a double meaning, and could also be translated as "The estranged"? I guess that would capture the essence of the book quite well.
That was my read as well having read it only about 3 weeks ago.
He's quite well-known.
From what I remember Mersault was about to be harmed? It was self defence?
‘Disoriented and on the edge of heatstroke, Meursault shoots when the Arab flashes his knife at him.’
I'm sorry, but there is no prominent theme of morality in this book. The judges aren't the protaganist, but everyone else and HE is the one being judged (by some
that are more guilty than he) in an absurd world. In the Stranger, Camus took the opposite vein and showed a man with no penitence (the chaplin begging him to
give it was very prominent as well) showing the judge-penitence relationship of others to the main character. I've read this book over and over and have read
considerable analysis and critiques of it as well. There are two prominent discussed themes of the book, the first being that the world is absurd and that one must
live life to the fullest regardless of how illogical it all is. The second being that this must be done regardless of the judgements of others as they are often subjective
and not relative to morality. Camus makes a point to not push morals by promoting the absurdity of life. That is why the OP is confused, the plot is absurd and
should not be looked at through the lens of morals. There is absolutely no promotion of activism, in fact the main character explicitly states that he would be
perfectly happy just curled up and thinking about the stars for the rest of his life. That is not activism. I would ask you to read the book again and specifically the last
sentence.
>and being judged

Exactly what the book is about. It's not him judging them. Its about how they and *you,* the reader, judge him without thinking. He is a blank slate, an observer, who
should reflectively allow you to be able to see how people constantly make false judgement of others and then believe they are true because enough people
believing it makes it truth by convention.
Nope. Pretty sure his friend gets threatened/hurt by them and Mersault very purposely returns with a gun, though it seems like he doesn't really know why he does
what he does.
I don't deny the judgment part. But why do you think that excludes morality? Yes, the book does not deal explicitly with morals or advocates one morality, but it is a
moral book, I still argue. Why? Because Camus is making a point, and the point is not "life is absurd, live to your fullest", for that is contrary to Camus's worldview.
HOW you live your life matters, and it does not merely refer to the fullness of experiences, but how to live in society.


The last sentence seems to me about finding fraternity even when being judged, for only men judge and by judging we live. This is precisely echoed in "The Rebel"
where he states that we are fundamentally fraternal BECAUSE we live in rebellion to the absurd of life. At that time, Mersault becoming aware of the absurd, also
discovers fraternity. In Camus that fraternity implies a moral way of living. This is not explicitly found in the Stranger but it is contextual to Camus's writing; Camus
wrote the Stranger to highlight his thought. His thought is unavoidably moral and that ties to the Stranger even if not in an explicit manner.
I need to read it again. From what I can remember THEY approached HIM on the beach.
‘Disoriented and on the edge of heatstroke, Meursault shoots when the Arab flashes his knife at him.’
There are no corresponding events that show morality is a theme. His neighbor is a woman beater who Camus is willing to fight for and the protagonist ends up
killing the Arab who initially followed this neighbor. The other dying , ugly, and weak neighbor beats his dog. Mersault judges none of them. He is judged by others
at the funeral of his mother for not crying (hardly immoral and Mersault explicitly and logically explains why he didn't cry). The prosecutors and judge make
judgements on every aspect of his life, regardless of morality, but in an absurd matter. The protagonist never has remorse or guilt, he never changes from the
events of the book. This was all done purposely by Camus to set up the main theme of judgement.

Contrary to his previous books, I believe that Camus meant for the protagonist not to be the judge penitent, but to be something of a mirror for the others who judge
him. Mersault has no judgement of others, no overriding emotions, no regrets and no penitence. However he is judged extensively by others in an effort to show the
judge penitent relationship towards this mirror. Of course at the trial he was judged for not crying. He was judged by his boss. He was even judged by the chaplin
who told him that he must be penitent or he will go to hell. Throughout the entire book Mersault still remains stoic, not showing much emotion, penitence, remorse,
or judgement. He was a mirror to make the two valid points.... While in prison Mersault thinks back to the sensual encounters with his girlfriend on the beach, to his
now dead mother, and ultimately to his death in days to come. He realized how beautiful life is and that he would be perfectly happy to just exist and enjoy life- even
if he spent eternity curled up looking at the stars. He felt no need to judge others.

The themes of the book are that life must be lived and to appreciate timelessness and the judge-penitent (but this time the protagonist is not one, the others are
judging him). Again, the last line, "I had only to wish that there be a large crowd of spectators the day of my execution and that they greet me with cries of hate."
This is what the book is about. Perhaps you are able to find some incidental morality, but I do not see it, only absurdity. In fact, Camus looked to make the book
absurd and remove the morality as an avenue for those two main themes. Can you point out to me what the moral theme is and incidents in the book that support
that? If you maintain that it is moral because it makes a good point with other themes... ok, but so does every book. Morality is not a specific theme of this book
though.
Yes but pretty sure he returns to where they are for basically no reason. He knew they had a knife. Not really self defense since he had no reason to show up.
Certainly didn’t have a reason to shoot as many times as he did.
\> Mersault judges none of them.


That's right. How does that imply morality is not a theme? All of those actions are moral actions. The moral attitude of Mersault falls also within the moral
landscape, and I'm arguing is part of what Camus was proposing. Camus is not neutral to Mersault, he rejects his view, including his moral attitude towards life and
others.


\> This was all done purposely by Camus to set up the main theme of judgement.


How can one separate judgment from morality? The judgement is done on moral grounds. It is not the judgement of attributes or height, it is the judgement of moral
actions within a moral framework. Society makes a judgement, the reader makes a judgement, and Camus also makes a judgement. He's making a point with the
book, and that point is a moral one. That's the point I'm not putting across. One needs, I think, to read him in his own context(of the author). Mersault refused to
play "the game", refused to engage in the hypocrisy but still was guilty(we know his guilt for a fact). To remove the moral dimension is to remove the very
framing(the judgement, as I said, is on a moral frame), the philosophical concerns of Camus and to ignore the fact that he meant them to be read together. The
Stranger and Sisyphus are tied together; Camus meant them to be a single piece. Why should one read the Stranger as if it weren't tied to it? Also you have to read
Caligula, meant to read with the Stranger and Sisyphus. It has a moral frame(where Caligula, generally perceived as a villain, is actually somewhat of a hero, in the
same way as Mersault). Why should we think it has nothing to do with morality? Because it is not explicit? Neither of its themes are explicit, one needs to read
between the lines and the subtext.


I am not convinced the judge-penitent is a theme of this. One could stretch it to imply that the society is being the judge-penitent, but even then the penitence is not
even the core. Society judging him prior to his trial had nothing to do with penitence. This would be a bizarre reading, I think. Not impossible, but I just don't see it.
What I do see is the moral theme of the Absurd prevalent in Caligula and The Rebel and The Fall and Exile and Sisyphus. For Camus's morality was a central
concern.


I say a theme is morality because that's the central question for the Absurd: what to do when confronted with the absurd? What is the meaning of things and
actions? Nihilism leads to moral nihilism, and yet, the question remains: how to act in life and why? This is present in all of Camus. Remember, he meant us to read
the Stranger alongside Sisyphus and Caligula. I don't imply that morality is THE theme; THE theme is the Absurd, but the question is a moral one: how to act in
front of the Absurd? In earlier writings he focused on a hero in tragedy-position parting from the individual, which even if not social is still moral. Should I be as
Caligula, reign in to my passions and judge society for its hypocrisy? That would make one hypocritical as well, but an honest hypocrite. That is how he sees
Caligula, who is perceived as one of the most immoral men to have lived. That alone is enough to indicate the moral framing of his thought. But later on, he
develops the same topic within the social part, the fraternal aspect of the rebellion(having rejected suicide as immoral, he now rejects murder as immoral as well).
Because his deep concerns are of an existential nature and existential concerns are also moral concerns.

Gotcha. Thanks
I waited a week for this boxed set to arrive, only to find Amazon sent it in a paper bag with no packing so it got beat up in transit.

https://i.imgur.com/6tuARNK.jpeg

All 8 corners of the boxed set are damaged along with the corners of the two outside books. I already have a return & replacement on the way.

This is the 2nd delivery in a week that's shown up, beat to hell, in a paper envelope. I usually try to check for local business options, guess I'll be ordering even less
from Amazon if this is their new quality of shipping.

Edit: Not 3rd Party. "Ships from Amazon.com, Sold by Amazon.com" right under the buy now button.

Edit2: Update, replacement received and to no one's surprise, [it was shipped in a bag and damaged, too](https://i.imgur.com/hpAWTiq.jpeg). Weirdly, the first set
was not shrink-wrapped, (a return?) which would account for the corners being so beat up. This one was wrapped and the corners aren't quite as bad, but they
managed to cut the wrap and tear the box. So, back it goes for a refund and I'm headed to the only book store nearby.
Meanwhile other people receive indestructible items that get placed in boxes 20 times their size or more with packing materials filling up the empty space.
That’s pretty fucked considering Amazon started as a bookstore
Yeah... I had this happen, complained, they apologized and sent a replacement... With the same packaging.


The company doesn't give a shit. I definitely go the local route when it is feasible.
Same company that delivered an ethernet adapter in a A2 size bubble wrap envelope.

Ridiculous.

TIL A2 sheet of paper ia larger than an A2 envelope.
I know it’s not a book but they shipped me a $200 gaming headset in a bag. Like 0 padding just plastic bag. The headphones box had holes in it, but at least
Logitech’s packaging was good enough that no damage to the actual headset. Was very annoying to receive in such condition though.
Fine choice of books, enjoy the journey!
Lately they've been either doing this or their flimsy plastic bags. Now I don't trust Amazon for books or vinyl records.
I use thriftbooks.com
My books from Amazon kept showing up damaged. I had them send me replacement 3 times. Each time it came in box with padding and every book had torn
cover, damaged pages and bent cover front as well the back. I given up and asked for refund. No longer buying books there. I rather pay extra $5 for a book
somewhere else and have be new like it should be.
Complain and send it back. That's the only way this crap changes. Amazon packaging for media in general has sucked for years.
When an Amazon worker packs an ordered item they see a bag or box type on the screen and have to pick that bag or box.

So shipping box is selected by volume of the item and not common sense.

This is why I get so nervous when ordering anything on amazon that I care about getting damaged cosmetically.
Amazon stopped packing things properly for shipping at least a decade ago, perhaps longer.

Everything you ordered -- particularly books, but also CDs, DVDs, other small and/or flat items -- used to be shrinkwrapped to a piece of cardboard the same size
as the box, so nothing could move all around. It was brilliant, and pretty much perfect.

Now it's zero fucks given, to save a few cents in packing costs.
Blood and bloody ashes!
Support local bookstores.

Edited now that this hit /all: hey folks, if you can’t for whatever reason, okay! Then this 3 word sentence doesn’t apply to you! It’s okay to not explain your unique
situation, and I’m sorry I didn’t cover every contingency within 3 words.

I stopped ordering books from Amazon, because every one was damaged.

The last one I ordered was The Stand, and they shipped that paperback in a plastic envelope. It got bent, twisted and damaged. Ended up getting a refund and
ordered elsewhere.

They will ship things like cat food with protection, but my Kindle Oasis? One day shipping in a small box with no protection. The case and charger were on top

I’m nervous to open it.
My dad runs a used bookstore and to a certain degree likes it - he gets newer books with busted corners faster since people don't keep them on their bookshelves
at home. Let's newer releases get circulated faster.
O hey I just started that series, was thinking about getting the rest
I was just thinking about ordering a book too. You saved me the trouble!
bookshop.org. biblio.com. indiebooks.
Yep had the same problem. Never gonna buy a book on amazon again.
Which is funny considering amazon started as a book store...
Boycott Amazon
Spend a couple more bucks and support your local bookstore. Corners will be pristine, and you help to prevent the day when you have zero book stores in your
town.
Big Man Bezos saving money so he can fly to the moon .
They do this with DVD box sets as well. I ordered the Hobbit box set and it came just in the plastic wrapping all new DVDs have with the shipping label slapped on
the outside. Not only could it have been very easily stolen but it was beat all to hell.
Don’t buy on Amazon, support independent shops
Support your local independent bookstore and shop on www.bookshop.org!
When running a struggling business like amazon, every penny counts.
Buy from a local bookstore. I pre-order shit from them online all the time. They'll usually take a lot more care getting it to you because they also like books!
Side note: I destroy the spines of my paperbacks, read them bent over themselves if I have to multitask, I dont care about those... but fuck with my hard covers or
leather-bounds and it's death.
Contact customer service and let them know what happened. There is a link at the bottom of the Amazon home page under let us help you, click on your orders,
click on order support on the right of your item, then click on call me, it will prompt you you put in your phone number and you will get a call almost immediately from
Amazon customer service.
Sorry to see that. Not sure if shipping practices might be regionalized, but I live in the Northeast U.S. and got a book from Amazon on Friday that was secured in a
box (locked in place with cardboard corners) and packed with bubble wrap. I actually thought it was a bit of overkill to pack it so well.
Those lying goddamn time wastin’ sons a bitches.
My wife bought a bunch of used books for her class recently. Several of them came in a plastic bag. One of them came in a box literally about 50 times too big.
What happened to the flat cardboard book mailers that were both small and sturdy?
Bookshop.org is a great place to buy books and support indie bookstores at the same time!
This has always been my experience with Amazon. I don’t think I’ve received a piece of physical media fully intact from them in 10 years. Vinyl, books, box sets of
all stripes, they’ve all at least taken a solid hit to a corner. Any plastic case with a disc in it is at least missing a substantial number of the spokes holding the disc in
if not way worse.

They’ll likely get you your shit faster but you’ll absolutely be able to tell they rushed it.
this isn't news. amazon has always sucked.
Find a good local bookstore. Another of them still have websites and shipping.
https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/amazon-alternatives-buying-books/

Instead of Amazon. Here's a list of alternatives.
Fuck Amazon.
I work for USPS and I see this all the time with Amazon packages. I try to be respectful to peoples property and not shove them into the mailbox. Amazon drivers in
my experience dont really give a crap and will damage your stuff without a second thought.
I received a book ordered from Amazon recently in one of those thin poly bag mailers, and the book was destroyed after the mail carrier also decided to shove it
through my mail slot. The polybag mailer itself was ripped across nearly every edge, exposing the book ,and causing damage on every edge. REALLY
disappointing. I've also received boxes from them containing only one small object and then about 7000 yards of crumpled kraft paper... so completely ridiculous
and excessive/wasteful.

Maybe they should split the difference in packing costs and stop destroying our stuff.
return it and tell them to try again
Contact customer service.

I've received refunds for stuff like this. They might also tell ground staff to pack stuff properly if they see this happen frequently.
This isn’t a new thing. I had this happen to me years ago and so I quit ordering books off of Amazon.
I once had an Amazon package delivered wrapped in a plastic Walmart bag.
I've been going to sellers on ebay to avoid Amazon for about three years now. Couldn't be happier.
I want to put out there that I ordered a book from [bookshop.org](https://bookshop.org) and even though they packed it in a sturdy cardboard mailer it arrived with a
bent corner. I emailed them photos and they sent out a new book AND let me keep the bent one that I ended up donating. They have hooked me as a customer
because it was so easy and painless to get a replacement. Might be an option for you?
Support your local bookstore
It isn’t as fast…but I have always been impressed by Bookshop.org’s packaging.
Barnes and Noble sends books in a box perfectly safe and sound
Been doing this for awhile, they went away from the nice cardboard backs that kept them protected

I always send it back until I get one of good quality
Just depends on how overworked and stressed the packer is I suppose.

Amazon jp still packs fairly well. Loads of wrapping—really much more than is necessary—which is how Amazon US used to be.

Last time I was in the States I ordered some fountain pen ink. One of those big packing bubbles was thrown in and no effort was made to secure the bottles. They
smashed together and the box was leaking on my parent's doorstop.

(the fountain pen reddit is filled with similar horror stories, so it's not just me)

If I were in the States, I probably wouldn't order from Amazon anymore unless it was something that I knew couldn't be damaged easily (like say if I was ordering
screws or something).
"Take the number of vehicles in the field, A, multiply by the probable rate of failure, B, multiply by the average out-of-court settlement, C. A times B times C equals
X. If X is less than the cost of a recall, we don't do one."

Apply the same logic to sending damaged books.
As their metrics for their drivers get harder and harder to achieve, quality will continue to decrease further. Until the job is essentially impossible and nobody gives a
fuck because it’s impossible.
They started doing this since much of their packaging is non recyclable. I have not had anything delivered with noticable damage, and would prefer this to a book
packed with styrofoam in a plastic bag.
Love this series and it breaks my heart to see this mistreatment. Enjoy the next set (but I will echo the chorus of voices suggesting you avoid giving Bezos more
money than you need to).
Such a rough life you live...ha! Whine on...
Stop supporting besos. Seriously.
This has been happening in Europe for years xD
12 books more to go to; Maybe try Barnes and Noble?
Maybe stop buying stuff from Amazon.
Buy from a bookstore then. Fuck amazon
July 1995 is Amazon was open for business. It only took 26 years!
A similar thing happened to me about a year ago, but mine was through a big third-party book vendor on Amazon. I ordered a fat paperback box set by an artist I
liked, and half the corners had been completely smashed into child-friendly round knobs by the time it arrived in a paper envelope. When I gave the vendor a one-
star review, there was an option to check off that basically asked, "Is this because the packaging was inadequate?"

Amazon knows and has known that paper envelopes are not good enough, but I guess they've done the math and it's just better for them to gamble on whether
people will bother returning it if it arrives banged up. (I didn't.)
We ordered a stereo cable and they didn’t even package it in anything. They stuck the shipping label on the outside of the insecure ziplock package that was
obviously designed to hang on a shelf.
Who was it fulfilled by? I've gotten many things from 3rd parties that were very poorly packaged.
Amazon US has always done this for me, which is why I refuse to buy books from them. Amazon AU is great, same with book depository.
My co-worker got an entirely empty bubble wrapper envelope delivered.
Unpopular opinion, but the publisher or manufacturer (other items) should be responsible for proper packaging for online sales. Otherwise it's just some poor
schmuck at Amazon trying to decide what's best or the computer telling them.

For example had these books come in their own small cardboard casing, no issues would've happened. But since this is just retail casing it's thrown into a bag or
box and will get aesthetic damage.
I ordered 20 some books back on prime day with their b2g1 free sale. Half of them were damaged and had to get replacements for them. 2 of them I had to get a
2nd replacement for.
Once I got an ice pack with Swedish Fish...the candy.
I work at Amazon unloading trucks and the way I was trained versus what is actually done is ridiculous. Might as well be playing kick ball.
I'm a teacher. I ordered 100 copies of *Maniac Magee* since our school didn't have a set and I really wanted to teach it this year.

They came in two smallish boxes. I opened them to find no protection or padding. One box wasn't terrible, but the other looked like someone had literally just
dumped the books in. One of the books was so damaged, I asked for it to be replaced, so a student didn't need to read a damaged book. They refused.

I went out and bought another copy from Barnes & Noble.
Amazon has become absolute shit

They ended same day delivery usually things that took 1 take 2 and things that took 2 take 5

Frequent late items when amazon was virtually never late a few years ago

They ended phone support because “pandemic”

Almost everything ships in envelope instead of box now

I started ordering larger quantities to get boxes and just in the last month quantities that used to be boxed are only envelopes. I increased further and just in this
week THOSE quantities have envelopes
I stopped buying books from Amazon right for the same reason as OP. Called it quits after one got sent back because it came in a box with a couple more items
and got torn to pieces. The replacement was sent in an unpadded envelope and arrived bent, with the spine broken and the corners all fessed up. And the same
happened with many more before.

A couple weeks ago, thinking those issues were limited to books, because it was a somewhat rare model and was on sale, I risked it and ordered a mechanical
watch. Several hundreds worth. It got sent in a paper envelope. Not even padded. Not even its box had substantial padding. Got delivered with the bezel ring and
case heavily scratched from banging around.

And before anyone asks or says anything it was sold and shipped by Amazon, not fulfilled or third party.

Amazon care with packaging has really gone down the drain.
I got a lava lamp in a bag once...you can imagine how that went...
Think about the environmental cost before returning a slightly tarnished, still perfectly consumable item to Amazon.

Just take the L and shop somewhere else next time.
I work for Amazon in a fulfillment center.

These brown bags are supposedly recyclable.

I cannot assure you enough, they are actual trash.

I don’t recommend ordering stuff from Amazon until they figure out how to make their packaging better. If I find a book or something that needs to be repackaged
into a box, I do, and if I have the envelope still, I’ll use that for dunnage instead of the plastic bubbles we use.

Edit: and even after that, still order stuff with a grain of salt and don’t be afraid to use the return policy. I’ve used it, gotten angry with the person on the other end
and they ended up sending me a replacement free of cost with a $5 credit to my account.
I ordered a teapot and it arrived in a flimsy plastic bag. Was smashed to pieces of course. So comically bad, it’s as if they are just taking the piss.
Dude I know. I work at Amazon and whenever the system tells me to put a book in an envelope I'm always worried about it and try my best but obviously won't
help. Still don't know how they figure that out. Like sweatshirts will be in this huge as box that we have to fill with those air bag things but paperback books go in an
envelope. I always feel bad but know that it's just what the system tells us to use and not up to the people packing it. We can change the box size but it takes a little
bit and doing it everytime wastes time and would lower our rate since envelopes are much fast than boxes.
Its fifty-fifty with damaged books on Amazon. Even if they put it in a box with other orders it's just banging around in there with no protection. I'm surprised now if a
book is *not* damaged.

If I want something nice I order it direct from the publisher.

Yes, I know I can return it but I got better shit to do.
Order one button battery with your books, you’ll get their biggest box, full of packing peanuts.
When monopoly is near prices go up and quality goes down... But nobody wanted to hear that the last 10 years and here we are.
Think of eco-friendly it is. Yeah your box and book are a little scuffed but I would rather that than be responsible for the mountain of shipping waste. Go to a store
and buy things if your worried about little scuffs.
If it's any consolation, these editions of Wheel of Time are really fragile and will end up getting pretty worn out anyway, after even a single reading. You'll even
smear out some of the text, most likely. I don't mind, though, for the price.
Skip them altogether and order it from a local indie bookstore.
Noted- my boycott of books from Amazon continues... Powell's etc- here I come! I usually only crack when books from Amazon are super cheap / fast to get and I
want them quickly. This however seals the deal for me.
I just keep on returning any book that Amazon sends me no matter how damaged. I'm like a stern school teacher that makes the student repeat the exercise until
they get it right. Hey, they're paying for the shipping.

But if I care about the book and I don't want to play games I just buy from somewhere else.
It’s a book. Can you read it?
eBay for books is awesome
Why we so obsessed with perfect things. Reduce your carbon footprint accept the wee dents and move on.
A lot of cases like this are when the seller isn’t actually Amazon. You can figure out what you’re getting by reading the reviews. Make sure you pick Amazon as the
seller in “buying options”
Don’t buy from Amazon
It's paper.... As long as the words are readable it shouldnt matter.

Use an eReader instead
Who cares if the edges are slightly crumpled? It's a book. Christ
It is not just books, I just received an Amazon delivery for new mouse. I was shocked to see it in a paper bag.
be sure to demand a refund before you quit. Otherwise they don't really care if you quit occasionally as long as you come back for poor quality stuff that you can't be
bothered to fight over.
Amazon fc employee here most books unfortunately go through the automation line or an employee who only has bags now.
I've been getting a lot of books via Amazon lately and they started out shipping them in boxes and shifted to bags over time. Fortunately, the ones shipped in bags
weren't badly damaged (maybe some very minor damage on the corners) but it was enough to make me pause my continued buying.
For online purchases, I usually like to combine a book with something that's definitely not going to fit in a cardboard sleeve. There's usually at least some other item
I need, like say: cheap deodorant, a cable, some tennis balls, whatever. That way they need to ship it as a package instead of in a sleeve.
Looks like green shipping has some downsides...
i recently got a fairly expensive art book, Game cardboard packaged but they still manage to muck up one of the corners.. Not much you can about it.
I buy most of my manga from RightStuf for this very reason (that and if you shop sales RS can beat Amazon in price.) Regular books I tend to buy used most of the
time so this isn't a huge deal (since they come from eBay, local sellers etc.)
My books I orderd camme bubble wrapped in a box.
Call Amazon logistics dept. 1000% better than the customer service. They can usually help you out with those kinds of issues.
I found that a lot of items that are shipped poorly are usually from Amazon resellers who lack the same packing resources someone at an Amaz Dist. Point would
have.
Got the same set in the same condition the other day.
This isn’t anything new. Those bags seem to be their “go to” lately. I hate the styrofoam that flies out when you rip it open
Eeeey Wheel of Time! First time reader or just getting a fresh new set in anticipation of the series?
Surely this is a good thing for the environment…
I was stupid enough to order a book and a attachment for my cordless drill at the same time. It all came in the same package, also a paper bag. The package was
packed in such a way that the cordless drill attachment marred the cover of the book. The shopping experience at Amazon has gone down hill ever since they
flooded their site with cheap made-in-China crap and have allowed multiple listings for the same item but from different sellers.
We got some posters in a paper envelope. They were destroyed.
Amazon’s packaging has always been stupid, a year ago they delivered a $300 camera lens to me in a paper bag luckily the manufacturer put it in a decent box so
only the box got damaged, but since then I’ve never expected intelligent packaging from them
Disappointing. The wheel of time is so good as well.
I know this may sound weird, but don't buy physical books at Amazon.
Not just books, I lost a face wash I ordered that was delivered in one of these bags. Corner was ripped and product gone, no way to get refund since I had no item
to return.
In other news, great choice of books. I'm on my 4th re-read at the moment
Try Bookshop.org. They support small bookstores. https://bookshop.org
I had same issue! Book was a leather-bound esque design, with a "package made for this item" glorified paper bag. It was beat up and scratched badly on arrival. It
took forever for the replacement to show up, and it was *the same packaging *!!. There were still scratches and dents, just minor compared to the first one
Eesh, I just ordered thay exact same box set. Hope it doesn't arrive banged up like that. I've had bad luck with Amazon books. Received a paperback book all bent
and torn, sent it back, and got what appeared to be a different mangled copy--or the same one now doubly beat-up from being shipped back and forth twice.
Not to be "that guy", but you can 100% avoid this issue by not buying books on Amazon. You could try [bookshop.org](https://bookshop.org) which uses small local
book stores to fulfil their orders.
I stopped buying books from them for this reason. I treat myself to hardback books and corners were always bent. The third party sellers mostly do a good job
though. I also stopped buying almost anything from Amazon because the delivery drivers always look so sad when they deliver and I don't want to add to their
stress for items I can get elsewhere.
Had a similar experience, fortunately it was still in decent condition but I was lucky it wasn't raining.
Don't buy from Amazon? How many times must it be said?
I bought two cookbooks this spring and they did the same thing. Delivered them on a day that it was pouring rain and it ruined both of them.
I've recently ordered a bunch of books from Amazon and they either came in that brown paper bag thing or a the white and blue plastic bubble wrap package. I
haven't had issues with damage though. Sorry to hear you have. I know not everyone cares, but I like to keep my books in good condition, even careful holding the
book open as I read them.
Well, shit. I'm literally supposed to write a video script for the company that makes these paper bag shippers tonight.
Amazon switched from the regular bubble mailer to a more recyclable friendly mailer that has paper rather than plastic.
Don’t use Amazon!
Yep same thing happened to the books I ordered last week. All three of my Anthony Bourdain books had bad corner damage.
@OP I just bought the set of the first 3 Wheel of Time books as well! I purchased from Barnes and Noble and they shipped great in a nice box, highly recommend
I work at a UPS Store, we see this kind of thing every single day. All day. Amazon has even “forgot” to package some clothing orders, and slap the label on the
clear zipper bag from the warehouse. Easily could be opened or destroyed in transit, amazon has too much money to even care anymore.
If the way they ship it isn't working, complain, return, ask for refunds. All that costs them money, they track all that, if the costs outweigh the savings they will stop.
If you complain, they'll let refund you the money and let you keep the book. I know a dude who does this almost every time, because they always show up
damaged.
All my homies hate Amazon.
Hopefully, AMAZON doesn't pull the old "send you a replacement that also gets fucked up" trick.
Just FYI, you can usually have your local bookstore order you any book that Amazon carries.
I’ve started ordering most of my books from bn.com just because they pack better. its too frustrating.
Powell's in Portland ships nationwide
Ugh, sucks big time. I've had more than a few packages arrived damaged because they were mispackaged or someone was downright lazy. For this reason I
usually mark it as a gift so they put it in a box.
This is the corner Bezos cut to go to space?
Back when I still shopped at Amazon, I ordered a 12" long whetstone. Just a common two sided sharpening stone. It arrived loose in a box with no packing, broken
in half. I sent it back and they sent a replacement. It arrived loose in a box and broken in half. Repeat twice more. Finally the fifth one arrived intact.
Try order as gift. May ship better.
The same thing happened to me. I ordered 4 replacements and all arrived the same despite me taking to customer service about it.
I like thrift books. Cheaper, more sustainable, and I’ve never received a book damaged in shipment
They are supposed to be switching all their envelopes to these because they're more recyclable than the plastic bubble ones. Good for the planet, bad for books
and fragile items
"This is some sort of Square of Time. Put it in the paper bag to round it into a Wheel shape"
i got shipped a gardening tool (pretty much indestructible) in a box twice the size of shoe boxes... Packed with air bags. Thanks amazon
As someone who worked for Amazon if that passed through a warehouse packed like that then I'm shocked it wasnt annihilated.

Definitely take off identifying information but based on the shipping label I could tell you whether or not it went through a warehouse.
Which is basically useless I'm just super curious.
I know people be throwing and kicking boxes that was not packed for warehouse handling at all.
You can buy more and keep returning it but they will not stop shipping it that way.
I learned last year not to get books from Amazon. I care too much about no bends or tears and every book they sent had something wrong.
Oh man. If you haven’t read the series you are in for a treat
That’s a great series if you haven’t read! Probably my favorite of all-time.
I got sent a ceramic frog sponge holder in one of those bags once from Amazon.

Obviously it was broken when it arrived.
Meanwhile my Amazon driver ripped my paper package open but kindly stapled it closed when he realized it was just printer ink.
Support your local indie bookstore.
I recieved a toy with the box ripped from one end to the other. I did check "used but like new" still didn't expect what I got.
I don't know if this happened to others but sometimes I order books from independent sellers, and I shit you not they wrapped it in 4 layers of shipping envelopes. I
mean I'm thankful they're so thoughtful and careful but that just felt a bit excessive lol. 2 envelopes is enough to prevent damage.
Can confirm. I run a book club with 26 members and I have to order everyone’s copies and I was surprised to see them just put about 8 books per white
bag/envelope thing with no padding. This past week they arrived in the brown envelope thing and sure enough, hard covers don’t fair to good in those unfortunately.
That's terrible. I hope you complained. The item is obviously too heavy for even a padded envelope.
The Prime ad on the collection box is just salt in the wound, huh?
Don’t? Shop? From Amazon?
Wonder if they are short on boxes? I got vacuum seal bags in one of the plastic baggies. The package they were in inside the bag was destroyed and they were all
mixed together when I got it.
They're doing something similar with cds. Ordered a cd and it came in a flimsy brown envelope. It was cracked. =/ Damn right I returned it >_<
This ain't nothing new. I've had multiple books replaced only for the replacement book to be just as beat up or in worse condition than the original. If Amazon didn't
have such good deals there would be 0 reason to even take the chance with shipping.
Sad, considering books were the products Amazon were selling first before it became what it is today.

Yeah, I'm weaning myself off of Amazon entirely because they keep sending me stuff that's beat to hell or clearly a dupe of what I actually wanted. All it has going
for it is the convenience, and it's not convenient for me to constantly fight with their customer service and hoping the new delivery isn't a dupe.
You used to actually be able to review the _packaging_ of your order. That ability went away quite some time ago, probably because it wasn't used much. But their
packaging sure has gone downhill ever since.

I think about this more than I'd like to admit.
The wheel of time... Very good, my friend, very good
all my books are shipped on fucking paper envelopes

a pair of rubber boots on a box with a shitload of air bags
And you can't do a thing about it. Thanks for your money. And no Jeff bezos is not winking at you.
I know this doesn't solve it, but it might help in the future. If they switched the packaging material you could wait til you have more items then it's required to have a
larger box. Just gotta make sure it's all from the same FC.
zero snark question:

what's wrong with getting a paperback book with a dinged corner?
Book depository usually sends their books in rather robust packaging and Im pretty sure amazon owns them?
Alibris.com is a fantastic alternative for those of us who try to not buy from Amazon
If it makes you feel any better, those Wheel of Time box sets are pretty low quality shite anyways
I guess next time order a kitchen knife to go along with it.
This is very common for many companies / packages in the country I live in. The difference is the shipping companies actually handle packages properly and they
rarely arrive all banged up or smooshed.

It seems like the US could benefit from damage accountability from shippers. Once it starts cutting into their bottom line they will change their procedures and train
their people to handle items with care instead of just yeeting them from place to place and then finally at your front door.
They shipped a ceramic mug to me in a loose bubble envelope. No surprise I received ceramic dust on arrival and no mug.
This just happened with a Gears of war comic I purchased. They sent the comic and my deodorant in the same paper bag. The book was sadly a little bent.
Same thing happened to me last week, 6 hardcover books ruined in 2 separate orders. Ironic that Bezos started the company by selling books online, now focused
on phallic spacecraft and anti-labor lobbying.
Damn that sucks. I order tons of manga and books off Amazon and they are usually packed pretty good in my experience. All the big heavy hardcovers I have
bought have come in boxes with those air bubble things. The single volumes or sometimes up to 2 vols come in the bubble envelopes but they have all been pretty
mint so far. Only problem I have had is an expensive book getting lost but they replaced it right away.
Don't buy books from Amazon. Support your local bookshop.
It depends on the system telling us what to do or the person who puts it in the bag because it's faster than making a box. You got to remember at Amazon they may
say we are a team but in reality they only care about you if you can pack over 250 boxes an hour regardless of your age.
I don't understand, they have those great wraparound cardboard things with the extra bits at the edges that protect it from falls, why do this?
I've stopped shopping on Amazon out of principle for their awful business practices. This, is another reason why I won't be shopping there.
You guys are getting packing materials?
whenever i buy yarn, acrylic yarn, it comes in a huge box with packing pillows
Yeah I got a microsd card in it's clamshell packaging, in a box full of plastic air cushions.
It's about cubing out the trucks and making sure they weigh properly, not necessarily about what would be the best option for shipping an item.
This is a new brown bag, the previous kind had synthetic lint paper filling for cushion. This one is without and it's recyclable. Which is great. But it's good for sturdy
plastic things and stuff but not crushable books.
The boxes are chosen by "smart conveyors" according to what's on the pick ticket. If you get something small and a giganto box, it's either because they were out of
the right size box at that very moment in time or somebody enter the dimensions of the item wrong into the system.
I've been an Amazon customer since 1995. Used to buy lots of books from them.

I stopped buying books from them a year or two because of the issue OP cites. They're mailed in just padded mailers, or in boxes with ZERO protection, so they just
fly around inside the box.

After a series of ruined books, the thing that once drew me to them has finally driven me away.
"Oh, you still read physical books? I'll show you, you fucking peasant."

\- Amazon
Yeah, so many books have gotten fucked up that I've just stopped ordering books from them altogether. Also minimizing how much I buy, period, because they're
so shitty to their workers.
I really don't understand why they didn't stick with their original book packaging. They would shrink wrap the book to a larger sheet of corrugated. That meant, at
most, 4 corners even *could* be exposed. Typically they did a pretty good job with the rest of the packaging.

Alas, this era is long gone. Now at least 1/4 of all my Amazon packages arrive damaged enough to require refund/return. I actually opened a ticket with customer
support that apparently got circulated all over my local fulfillment center. No change though. Packaging still makes no sense at all.
Started as a bookstore because the strategy was to corner one market at a time, but books were always just a sales category. They chose books because they
could be packed in a more uniform way and didn’t spoil like food.
Better yet I just bought a book from them and it was fulfilled by another company. Literally laughed for a minute straight.
Bookshop.org
In /r/vinylreleases people are saying Amazon has been shipping them vinyl records in the same paper bags.
It's nuts that books was the starting point. You know, the things we can get for free from the library
I worked as a packer and the problem is their garbage system that assigns the packaging to be used. As a packer you can override that and put it in different
packaging but you'll lose some of Amazon's precious efficiency so nobody does it. I did it when I worked there when there were items that obviously should have
gone into different packaging, but I didn't particularly care what my items per hour ended up being.
Or literally any other book website. Barnes, BAM, Abebooks even (independent sellers).
Same, luckily most of the damage is light and on a small corner...but at the same time it annoys me and I've complained each time
While I've a fair share of experience with fulfillment centers I wouldn't be able to tell you in detail what goes wrong other than that packaging materials are "set", it's
not that the guy who does the packing has much to say about it. He gets product + the packaging and he puts it in there.

And on that note, as someone who lives abroad and is sporadic back home, I just ordered 30+ books from Amazon UK to the EU and everything arrives in perfect
shape. From Amazon directly and third party guys. Shit happens I guess.
That seems like an appropriate package choice to me... what am I missing?

Edit: when I search it, goigle tells me A2 is a 4 3/8 in x 5 3/4 in greeting card envelope. Maybe theres a different A2 for big packing envelopes, or maybe you meant
a #2 mailer?

Edit: I now understand that they meant "an envelope the size of a standard A2 sheet of paper" rather than "an envelope with some standard size designation of A2"
which are evidently two different things. TIL.
I've worked in packaging, that realistically the smallest size they have mass produced. They don't have dime bag sized packaging bags. They order those bags by
the million.
Strictly speaking, it was probably a C2 envelope.
Certain items are set to ship in that packaging. It's all one size, they don't ship in smaller or bigger envelopes, just that one size. The reason is that the associate
can be super duper fast at that station, like pack hundreds of items an hour fast.
I had glass aquarium equipment shipped this way. The manufacturer had packed well within the product box, and that box went in an unpadded envelope. Guess
it’s cheaper to replace the returns.
Thanks, I've been meaning to read Wheel of Time for a while, just never got around to it.
I had a vinyl come a few weeks ago that had NO box, label was just slapped on the record shrink-wrap. Miraculously arrived perfectly fine. But that's some BS
Box shortage
Weird, every record I’ve got off Amazon has been in one of those form fitting cardboard sleeves made specifically for vinyls.
I just recently started noticing that. Bought a couple small items and they all came in those paper envelopes without padding and the items’ card stock boxes were
all torn and crushed. Thankfully the items themselves seemed undamaged, but they weren’t the most fragile to begin with thankfully
at least with thriftbooks you’re paying for an already-damaged book
Lots of love for these guys. They're my online go to now.

They often have options for new books if that's what you're after, and I learned today that they do collectibles (first editions and signed copies) as well.
I'm really into buying thrifted stuff (really just into avoiding buying new stuff, I guess). Thank you for the tip - Goodwill and the local used book stores around here
are really luck of the draw, so hopefully I can find more specific stuff through this site.
I use them too! I try to use Better World Books when I can, same concept except they also donate a book for every one you buy, it's awesome.
Thriftbooks.com will do the same exact thing, just happened to me
Yep, already done. If the next one shows up damaged, I'm getting a refund and ordering elsewhere.
Yes! Its shrink wrapped to some cardboard and that cardboard is then glued to the center of the box so the books don't get banged around. Books I order from
Amazon Japan still come like this. American Amazon has stopped giving a fuck. Every hardcover book I've ordered from them recently has come with damaged
corners. I'm no longer buying books from them if I can help it.
Yep, I remember that.

The good old days, eh?

It's too bad more people don't complain now or maybe they would go back to the old packing way. As it is, even with replacements they must still save money from
the old way.
Amazon *really* doesn't give a fuck. They have had a huge problem with counterfeit goods like tools and clothes on their site for a while now, I'm in the trades and
would never buy even reputable tool brands from Amazon for example. Unfortunately they can afford to undercut the competition so much (AWS web hosting is the
real money maker and local governments are bending over to get Amazon warehouses built for the jobs) that they'll always win out on raw pricing alone.
I've gotten multiple vinyl records with damaged sleeves from them, including one that had slid completely out of the sleeve and was loose in the box. Whenever I
ask for a replacement, they tell me to keep the "defective" item and send a new one. It is a weird business model.
To be fair, the workers in the warehouses packaging this aren't exactly happy employees. There's so much mistreatment and management abuse. They're given
shit for just using the restroom and aren't paid livable wages. It sucks, I know, because we the end customer get screwed. Then we have to send it back and wait
for re delivery, more packaging gets wasted. It's a crap cycle.
It's also zero fucks given because the warehouse staff doesn't have time to give a fuck.
This is weird, I’m a packer at Amazon. Most books and box sets are put into boxes. I don’t even think my FC carries the mailers that would fit a box set. I could
imagine a worker putting an item in a mailer cause it’s faster, but not the company as a whole.
funnily enough, they still ship all products like those you mention in the ol' shrink-wrapped way in Japan.

they probably figure american consumers just don't care as much
I wish to the moon and back that I had a local bookstore to support.
Support your local library!
\+1 to this. Amazon has done so much damage to publishers and bookstores, and not in a way that makes things better. Don't buy books from them.
My issue with anything other than Amazon is shipping. I went out of my way to order a book from bookshop and it took just shy of a month to travel 4 hours (it was
in my neighboring state, literally 4 hours away from me).
I lived in Chicago for covid for awhile, and I shit you not, had some trouble actually finding a locally owned bookstore.

I had to go to Michigan ave to a place called ‘volumes’

Everything else besides porn shops and special interest bookstores are closed up bc how can you compete w Amazon
I heard about thriftbooks.com from a Reddit post I think, and I’ve been using it for used books here and there for a few months. So far, I have had no trouble.
Affordable, used books at a low price.

When buying new books, I place orders with my local bookstore.

Kindle books, unfortunately, I still use Amazon for. I don’t know of an alternative. 90% of my reading is on my Kindle.
I'm expecting to get a lot of hate for this, but my local bookstore hasn't done anything for me that Amazon hasn't done better... I disagree with a lot of their business
practices, but purely from a consumer's point of view, they just offer better service. Sometimes I feel like people romanticize the idea of the local bookstore as if they
live in some kind of romantic comedy.

Not to mention how many people have no access to a local bookstore, or live in regions where the local bookstore is curated with certain ideologies in mind...
I do occasionally but paying cover price for everything is ridiculous compared to chain store sales and online alternatives.
It took 4 weeks for a copy of a book to arrive. I'm sorry but why.
I support Half Priced Books locally. But if I can get the same exact new book off of Amazon for 30-40% less than in store... Sorry, that's a pricing issue that the
book industry needs to work out.
The last time my sister ordered cat food from Amazon: Several of the cans were damaged and split open. Ants EVERYWHERE. She requested a refund and
canceled her subscribe n save order. Get your cat food from Chewy.com… They pay attention to packaging.
Same with my Oasis. Only protection it had was its own retail box. Otherwise, chucked in a bag with no bubble wrap or padding. Surprise surprise- broken screen.
The replacement they sent was in a box, at least. Just a waste.
Hell yeah, never again
To save a few clicks for everyone not in America: this is US only
There's no "call me" option that I can find, there's a "get help" link that goes to a chat bot. But I've already scheduled a replacement/return as damaged.
Also northeastern US here (upstate NY). Quality of Amazon packaging has taken a nosedive for us over the past couple years and I now avoid it for anything I’m
concerned about damage for. Books in bags or those sticky corner cardboard envelopes seem to be the norm now, or ordering multiple books they’ll all be
bouncing around loose in an oversized box with limited packing material. I’ve switched to mostly ordering online from B&N or doing in store pickup at my local shop
if the price isn’t too much of a premium.
Seems true all books I ever got from Amazon Germany came in these cardboard envelopes. While Amazon JP shipped my books from one service center in a
paper envelope like OP's one time and another time vacuumed onto strong cardboard.
I’m also in the Northeast and had a book left on the porch this week in a paper package in the rain. The bottom was soaked through.
They use plastic envelopes for smaller items. But obviously putting a box set in one would be dumb.
Good to know. That's where I'm going to order from next if the replacement also shows up damaged.
Hope they like paying to ship it twice
Judging by what I read in the news and on the various message boards (like this one), we're already there. If we could see their employee turnover, I bet it's sky
high. What do you suppose is the average time before a new employee quits? I'm betting on a month.
I will never turn my back on the kisses
It has?

I rarely order from Amazon directly, but the few times I did order from them, the books were in thick cardboard envelopes that held them in place and fully protected
them. It's Amazon UK and Amazon DE that I ordered from.
www.bookshop.org
I push the gospel of eBay on anyone who will listen.

I only buy secondhand books, and eBay is perfect for that. They also have a "benefits charity" filter, so most of my books come from goodwills. I rarely spend more
than $6.50 for a book and almost always have free shipping too. Sure, it takes a little longer for books to arrive, but I have plenty of other books to read while I wait
(which also came from eBay).

So I get cheaper books with less waste (since they're used) with the added bonus of buying from a charity. Win-win-win.
Like what a giant child. The book isn't *perfect* so let's demand Amazon wraps books in styrofoam.
Yeah, I was getting an out of print paperback book, and the 3rd party seller sent it wrapped in a plastic bag.
What do they say about tripling their cost due to shipping the return and a replacement ?
When I buy used books, I don't mind dings. But I paid for new, undinged books that were damaged because of inadequate packaging so the shipper could save a
buck. I wouldn't accept a pizza delivery that was shipped in a paper bag and kicked around in transit either.
I have - small items, big boxes, and long streams of those inflated baggie things.
I somehow keep ending up with Amazon's version of a Matryoshka doll where my tiny amazon purchase comes in 3 different sized boxes all within each other. I'm
in Ontario, Canada, for regional difference purposes
Air bags which my kids redistribute so that I unwittingly step on and scare the pants out of everyone wondering what that shot was.
We used to DREAAAAM of gettin ours with packin materials!
Only if they're completely unnecessary.
We got a box of baby wipes from Amazon and they used 15 cartons of cigarettes as packing material.. I shit you not.
I ordered a tire for my motorcycle and it was packaged with a sticker and nothing else. To be fair it didn’t arrive damaged but I was surprised they didn’t bother with
a box or plastic bag or anything.
Ordered bubble wrap. Came packed with air pillows in a box.

I do appreciate the paper envelopes over the plastic padded mailers for most stuff that will survive it.
I got a 5/16 drill bit in a giant box with packing bubbles.

Then I got a clock (which was broken) in an envelope.
You guys are getting packages?
You guys are getting boxes?
Yeah some nice employees threw their crumpled pay stubs to protect my chinese padlock. The delivery driver sold me weed. Great service overall.
They do this to standardize the size of the boxes across packages. This allows them to fit more packages into a given delivery truck.
That beats mine. My wife bought two foam minecraft pickaxes for our kids off Amazon. They came in a 4’ x 3’ x 2’ box full of air cushions.
I'm an animator and collect a lot of hardcover "Art of" books and I've noticed Amazon's quality has dropped over the last few years. My last several orders every
book has come with some kind of damage on the corners or the spine. The books have no safety/packaging other than a strip or two of air pillows on top right
before they tape it up. Hell, my last order had only 2, not 2 strips, 2 singular pillows both deflated. Im done buying from them. The next art books I buy im getting
from Barnes & Nobles despite it being $30 more. Same goes for the boxed comic set im planning on getting. No way a boxed set will survive Amazon shipping.
I've become very hesitant to buy books from them too. More often than not, my first look is on bookshop.org or other sources, despite the higher cost.

And at one point it seemed like they were really driving the development of cardboard book mailers. Protective, light, easy to open. Almost seemed like overkill
sometimes, but books don't take well to hard thumps.

They also used to seek feedback on the packaging. Nowadays I don't think that's an option at all, you can send it back or eat it.
Same, since 97 here. Still order a lot of little specialty things that I would have to drive around to several places to find. But books not so much anymore. Used to
order a lot of CDs back in the 90s as well, but nobody buys those online anymore, really.
It didn’t really start happening to me until around 2017 I think. Granted I don’t think I bought many physical books from them starting around 2009 because of the
Kindle. Still, I don’t recall ever getting sent boxes without any packing, books or not, until around 2017
What bookstore do you use know if you don't mind me asking?
Can't you request a refund?? Not defending them, not saying the hassle is worth it, just curious. I also started buying from Amazon back when they were just the
bookstore and still but books every now and then and haven't had this problem so I'm curious if you had issues trying to refund.
“Buy a Kindle, or else the next package of books you order will be even worse.” -Amazon
Yeah it'd maddening, the last few times i've bought heavy art books from them they are just chucked in cardboard box and arrive with all the corners dented. I'd
complain and they'd ship me a replacement, assure me it would be packed better (which seems nonsensical since I'll bet most of their CSAs have never set foot in
an FC), then do the exact same thing again.


The used to have really good book mailers that were cardboard and folded down to exactly cover the book, but i haven't seen one of those in the US in probably 5
years.

It's a good reminder to use them less.
I learned even back during the 2000s to never buy anything from Amazon if you care about the box (or in this case the cover). Every collectors item I bought from
them came to me damaged.
Oh, I ALWAYS Complain. I make them pay in time wasted and having to resend stuff. I do not hesitate for a moment to ask for it to be received in pristine condition.
I'm pretty anal about my books.
I got a new phone and haven't signed into Amazon. I don't feel very inclined to buy from them anymore, I'd rather walk into a store than support them. Also the
inconvenience of going to the store for things that I want but don't absolutely need right now saves me money because I just don't end up going to the store
Abe is actually owned by Amazon.
Powell's is my online choice, after my local shop.
I use websites like Bookshop, thriftbooks, betterworldbooks, discoverbooks. Sometimes alibris or even ebay. (Edit: some sell second-hand books, which i don't
mind)
Abe has only ever sent books in plastic envelopes. One summer it was really hot in the mailbox and the plastic melted to the book cover
Professional printer here. There's a bit of a disconnect happening here. You are correct about the size of an a2 envelope, which is a standard size in North
America. Op is likely referring to an envelope the size of an a2 sheet of paper (international standard) which is about 23.4x16.5 inches.
An A2 size packing envelope would be about 10x larger than it needs to be for an Ethernet adapter.
A2 is pretty big for a small adapter
It’s just not necessary, given the size of the object. Some leeway is expected for safety’s sake, but an A2 sheet? That’s enormous.
And arguably, you *do not want* something that small going through a package facility.

The number of times I've had to disassemble pieces of equipment to try and get tiny little playing-card sized packets out of jams that absolutely destroyed them; or
the number of times I've found a tiny package that fell between machines and was missing for months, is countless.

When a facility has less than an hour to process 50k+ packages to distribute to hubs that have to sort through 10k+ each to send to stations that have to sort
through 1000+, that's a lot of opportunities for a pocket sized package to get lost.


So just please, never use an envelope smaller than a standard paper sheet, so like, 6x8.5 or 6x11, makes everyone's life easier
You are right, sorry about the confusion.


TIL: A2 envelopes are way smaller than an A2 sheet of paper.
I just bought my first copy of *Eye of the World* two days back, and plan to start it this week! It’s fun to see others starting on the same thing at the same time
Well the go with the Light, child.
I'm on book 6 now and I'm loving it so much. Going to read New Spring before I continue to book 7. I'm gonna give you some advice. Download the "WoT
Compendium - Unofficial" app. It's cool cause it has all the characters (there are so many characters) with no spoilers.


Remember to take your time. These books were written with some time in between them so keep that in mind if you read it all at once as it could seem very
repetitive. I don't mind it but I can understand why some people don't like it.

Other than that enjoy. I'm also a first time reader of the series and I'm loving it.
Wow. It's a helluva journey. There are some slow books, but hang in there - I was pretty pleased with the ending.
My man you are in for a ride. We’ll be waiting for you at the subreddit. Super full of spoilers over there so we’ll wait for ya. I can’t tell you how much enjoyed this
series.
So stoked for you!! I just started my too many to count reread prior to the release of the show.
As someone getting back onto reading recently, what journey do these brooks provide?
You’re going to love it!
You’re in for a treat! I read part a long time ago, currently rereading and completely enthralled all over again. Such good writing.
I’m sorry this happened though, looks like a lovely set.
I started listening to the audio books last week and I'm already on the second book. Its amazing so far. I Can't believe I did not hear about it until recently.
Amazon has been trying out a new SIOB (Ship In Own Bag/Box) procedure where most items are not put into Amazon boxes but are instead shipped in whatever
container the manufacturer provides them in. It's an attempt to be environmentally friendly, but all it does is result in more damaged products.

To attempt to avoid this, request a gift receipt with your item. These can't be attached to an item itself (or at least they shouldn't be) so at the very least your items
will get packaging.

I work at Amazon.
This is a fuck up in their system that in the 3 years I worked there they refused/didn't try to fix. I worked in the parking department that sends out single items.
Figured out that they didn't differentiate between vinyls that came in special boxing from the seller and vinyls just in the sleeves. Complained about it for nearly 2
years and they never gave a fuck to fix it.
Same! I was amazed that it was undamaged. Literally shrink wrapped record with a shipping label on it!
I ordered a car bumper that arrived just like that. Just the bumper with a shipping label stuck on it, no box or packaging whatsoever.
Up until recently this was the case for me. It was either that or the form fitting mailer AND a giant box. Recently though, nothing they send is in a box instead I get a
flimsy plastic bag that tells me it's saving boxes or something.
At least it's damaged from love
It lets you choose the condition you're buying, so you're not disappointed. I usually shell out the couple of bucks for the Very Good condition ones but sometimes I'm
like meh, Acceptable will do. I like my books feeling used, actually.

I only wish they delivered faster.
I just responded to the original poster of this comment as well, but you should also try Better World Books, it's the same as thriftbooks basically but they also donate
a book for every one bought.
I just got that box set, or one very similar from Barnes and noble. Came packaged very well.
Or get a refund and buy elsewhere. Perhaps even digitally and direct from “origin”. But buy from an organization of people with heartbeats (and all of the “trivial”and
relatable challenges that go along with that), who have at least considered that their products are going to similar others with heartbeats...

The thing is, Amazon doesn’t give a fuck about “your” new problem that you effectively brought upon yourself. It’ll be an automated solution for them alone and
based ONLY on economics (not the environment, not the people picking, sorting, and delivering, Not the publishing house, not the impacts of an extra book and
extra packaging, or the trash generated from throwing the rejects away, not the author, not even the customer service aspects). As far as they’re concerned, you
don’t exist —you’re just a number, an inconvenient address, some bits and bytes moving through their data center, nothing more. You and your time, your general
inconvenience and frustration, your delayed satisfaction of reading some thing that somebody put a lot of time into, the extra delivery quotas and “damage”
penalties for someone in the delivery chain, all of that can all go fuck itself.

Simply because this situation falls into an acceptable range of faults for Amazon that can be automated away. They still get their margin, they still have growth, and
nothing you or your dollar can do will change that one iota. Not even 1000 of your dollars or 10,000 of your friends with $1000 of their dollars. Because it’ll still be
outside the algorithmic range of concern for them.
Amazon Japan is great! I order art books from them and they arrive in pristine condition.
Ditto. I'm very particular about books, I don't like them bent or creased in any way. When I used to loan books to friends (notice the past tense there) if they came
back with cracked spines I was fucking PISSED.
I used to complain on every order (even if nothing was damaged, even though often something was at least bent or dog-eared). Never got a response.

I guess that's how Bezos saved up his pennies to go to orbit for 30 seconds. :(
I'm guessing it's just like FedEx and UPS... in order to get shit delivered so quickly they have to cut every corner when it comes to handling the boxes.

Which results in a predictable percentage of damaged goods.

The beancounters have done the math to know that the amount they are paying out in damage claims is far exceeded by the income they make by delivering fast.

So they do what their business model requires them to do.

Amazon wouldn't do what they do -- and Bezos wouldn't be jaunting into space for 30 seconds -- if it all didn't still work out in their favor. :(
And if you return too many orders, Amazon will suspend your account (or at least they were doing that 5 - 10 years ago).
[https://bookshop.org/](https://bookshop.org/) my friend

(\*ETA a caveat that as far as I know this is US-only right now)
If you’re in Canada, send me a message. My local indie shop will ship anywhere is Canada.
Yes!

And the more you use the library, the better case they can make for funding, which helps the entire community by providing access to vital resources and services
besides just books. Everybody wins when you use your local library!
Another great idea!
Who did you love in Chicago?
Yes. The only "local bookstore" within 45 minutes of where I live is a chain...so hardly your friendly independent bookseller. Some people have very unrealistic
ideas of the availability people have to bookstores.
The trade-off of not paying cover price isn't worth it. It supports companies like Amazon who will ship you damaged books and fuck up compensation to publishers
and authors. Publishing is a hellscape right now because of the pricing expectations Amazon has set.

Support your local bookstores if you want to own, and otherwise support your local libraries. There are lots of ways to read cheaply or free, especially with ebooks.
Yeah, local bookstores might cost more than Amazon. And this is a perfect example of the trade off. Quality and care.

Not to mention the income/taxes aren’t staying in your community; local workers aren’t getting paid.

That extra dollar does more than you think.
Because that’s how much books actually cost. Amazon is selling at a loss.
Most likely because you already made that arrangement.
Well it's kinda like infant mortality. You have half the people hired don't show up or leave after a day or two. But yeah it's pretty short, but you have people that stay
for a year too.
I always got them in the thick cardboard envelopes, I only order from Amazon DE, but also got shipments from UK and Spain and on time even US, because the
books were in English, only time I ever gotten a paper bag was from Amazon JP.
The first time it happened was with Job's biography in 2011 (UK). It doesn't happen every time but it has.
I would also suggest BetterWorldBooks for used books as well. They give you the option to pay for a carbon offset for shipping as well.
I got a stream of those that must have been 20 feet long. My kids ran around playing with it in the yard. They called it the dragon.
I once got a keyboard delivered in no box or envelope. Just the packing slip taped to the keyboard box.
lol I get small items in huge boxes but no packaging
I ordered actual pillows from Amazon and they decided to pack a big box full of inflatable baggies with it. Pillows.
I haven’t the heart to toss a large piece of packing paper that my cat loves to hide beneath. He loves to surprise my dog and other cat. Of course, it wasn’t much to
protect my Amazon shipment… I don’t trust them with books anymore, which was benefited my local bookstore. I just have to wait longer if they don’t have certain
books in stock. Alas, I need to work on this virtue called patience anyway.

Edit: bad grammar
My husband got a single box of Cliff bars. It came in a HUGE box with 56 of those little air pocket things.

 ^(Yes, I counted...)
“Inflatable baggie things”

We call those barbie pillows
Because of how they're classified in Canada, I've found that Amazon will ship *tiny* bottles of essential oils alone in huuuge boxes with some paper padding
(though the bottles themselves have seller bubble wrap around them).

Apparently essential oils are classified as a hazardous substance (flammable) and they ship with a safety placard sticker and everything.
Also in Ontario, and I concur.


Except for my books. Every book I have ordered the last 10 months has come in a soft bubble envelope, and ends up beaten to hell like the OP's books. I've had so
many to replace. But an 18 kg box of cat litter, which can be easily shipped with just a label stuck to the outside, oh that's been plastic sealed, swaddled in reams of
paper, boxed, and reboxed to make sure it doesn't get a bent corner.


My cats definitely appreciate the attention to detail. They are VERY picky.
The matryoshka doll effect happens because they're *russian* to fill the order.
Had this happen a couple days ago in Pennsylvania. Large box with a smaller box inside, no packing so the box was bouncing around inside. Inside that was my
item, in its own box, also no packing material. Could've just slapped a label on the item itself and sent it.
Ah, I'm in the American South, so my boxes come filled with traces of meth and racism.
What? 15 boxes of cigarettes to use as packing? Are you saying the boxes of cigarettes were full of cigarettes you still packing because if that’s how they’re going
to be I know people who would order any one dollar item in order to get the packing.
The delivery driver probably opened your box to see what it was, decided it wasn't for them, and packed all the cigarrettes they smoked in there
When I worked for Amazon they told us the size box & existence of packing materials are decided by the seller. As in,the computer tells you what box to use. You
can’t decide to use a smaller or “better” box, only what’s indicated.
In this case it seems that the seller opted out of a sturdy packaging or the warehouse packer screwed up, likely the seller cheaped out.
You cant fit more boxes per truck by putting things in boxes ten times the size they need to be. A thumb drive can go in an envelope. Last time I got one, it was in a
box that could have held probably 15 or 20 cards, in delivery envelopes inside it.

It may make it easier, or cheaper logistically, but it doesnt fit more per truck, thats for sure.
Oh man, with those big gorgeous art books, I don't blame you one bit. These days, they will get WRECKED with Amazon shipping for the exact reasons you state.

I used to go back and forth between instocktrades and amazon for ordering comic stuff. These days, I stick with the former. They always package my orders well.
Thanks for the tip on Bookshop! I don't think I've used them before. I don't mind spending a *little* bit more, if my books will be treated with care. I'll give them a
look.

And you're right about the mailers. For a time, they had these great, compact cardboard mailers that were perfect for most book sizes. I used to keep them for
when I sold on eBay, they were that good.

I guess with their primary focus now being on speed, speed, speed, they don't want worked spending the extra 40 seconds it would take to use them.

One of the last books I got from Amazon was a tabletop gaming book for D&D. It was in a box four times the book's size, and not even a single shred of packing
paper or one of those bubble things was in the box with it. The book just banged around inside the whole time. It arrived wrecked, the corners more worn down and
rounded than my chubby middle-aged ass.

Amazon is very good with their return policies, but what would be even better is if I didn't have to return something in the first place.
I've been getting a lot of knockoff books as well, with terrible text spacing/sizing, errors everywhere, sometimes completely missing the copyright page. It used to be
that the knockoffs were pretty obvious, so it would require matching the cover art on another site to the thumbnail on Amazon. But they've started to ship the
knockoffs anyway, and it's a real bitch when you're excited to read a book and a garbage copy arrives.
I really miss those cardboard mailers. I wonder if they were taking too much time at the warehouse or something.
I was messing around with bookshop.org and is it just me or is the search absolutely terrible?

I'll admit I'm a bit of a book snob, I only buy hardcovers.

Where is the advanced search? It's to chaotic, why can't I filter stuff better?
They request my feedback every time I get a package (often). I'm using the app which tells me when something is delivered so maybe that's the difference
bookshop.org is where it’s at. honestly i’ve gotten very good prices there. and supported my local book store during the pandemic!
Bookshop.org is the best! They do cost more but they also give a percentage of the sale to local bookstores as grants and authors can also get an extra 10% of the
sale if you buy from an authors link. They’re huge supporters of the indie book industry so if you love local bookshops Bookshop.org is the best way to shop online
for books.
Yeah, though I have some moral misgivings about it that I'm still arguing with myself about, I do still find myself getting a lot of convivence items from them. When I
can get something I need for the kitchen or some duct tape or a tennis racket or *whatever* by the next day and skip the hassle of going out to the store ...

That's hard to resist.

I don't defend it in any way. My misgivings about it grow deeper by the day. I'll cut the cord at some point, I think. But 26 years of shopping there is a tough routine
to break.
Not OP, but have been actively looking for alternatives especially for used books.

One staple was abebooks.com but alas was
Purchased by you-guessed-it Amazon. Still a great aggregator for used bookstores.

I have a small local chain of used bookstores called wonderbk.com and they have a nice ship-to-store in the Md area.

Powells as mentioned elsewhere. Alibris too.
I switch around a lot depending on what I'm looking for.

For comics/graphic novels I tend to use instocktrades. Great prices and they *finally* added the option to preorder. They package their stuff well, too. (I think they're
affiliated with another site, Tales of Wonder or something like that, so they would likely be a good option too.)

For RPG/gaming books I've managed to get good prices at coolstuffinc, and they treat packaged with great care. I get most of my board game stuff from them.

For general books, I bounce around between booksamillion, target, and Barnes & Noble. Even eBay from time to time. Prices are generally comparable, free
shipping if you order over a certain amount, and I've been happy with the packaging. They're all good options that have been around a long while.

None of this includes local bookstores, of course, and yes, I urge people to support them when they can!

I’ve just ordered an art book from Books-A-Million for the first time, and am waiting for it to arrive. Hopefully they do good packaging, but besides that point, they’re
apparently a decent sized boom company based out of Alabama (I think?).
A return and refund, yes, Amazon tends to be good about returns, in my experience.

One I requested and it was easy, the other - and this is admittedly a bit creepy - the other saw me complain about them to a friend on Twitter, and contacted me out
of the blue to offer a refund.

I did not tag them or message them. They were just monitoring for their name, I guess.
Yes! They would also shrink wrap the book to a piece of cardboard. That was nice.
I tried that and it didn't work lol
Nooooo. My heart.
Alternatives: Biblio and Alibris
AbeBooks is independent sellers. Like eBay but for books. They are not a singular source of goods.
Join us in r/WoT for discussions and read-alongs!
Good luck!! the series only gets better as it’s goes, always makes me happy to see new people picking up my favorite series.
First 5 books are some of the greatest fantasy ever written. 6-10, things slow down a lot and it feels like nothing is getting resolved, but it's all worth it because the
last 4 are phenomenal.
The wheel weaves as the wheel wills…
It's funny that you say that because compared to some authors today, Jordan was pumping out like 3 WoT books a year sometimes haha
Aaaah thank you. I'm on book 8 and the last couple have really got me losing track of everyone.
Dude that app is awesome. I'm on book 6 too. I have trouble keeping characters straight so this app is great
That app is so amazing. On book 8 and it’s been so helpful
I’m sad I never finished it. Got halfway through the 12th book, accidentally left it in a Nebraska hotel room, and never got back to it. Gonna restart the series
because I’ve long forgotten where I was.

Hopefully the series isn’t too troublesome for me to put together, I’ve heard sometimes box sets like these omit parts of books to fit them into the set
There are neither beginnings or endings to the turning of the wheel, but it was an ending.
They’re kind of the gold standard for the absolutely massive epic fantasy series. Starts out Tolkienesque, but rapidly morphs into something way more interesting,
with loads of juicy female characters, an incredibly detailed world, and an ending that sticks the landing.
> To attempt to avoid this, request a gift receipt with your item. These can't be attached to an item itself (or at least they shouldn't be) so at the very least your items
will get packaging.

amazon singles packer here. Those gift receipts do get attached with package slip plastic pouches. The issue is a decent chunk of workers just throw it away. If
work is slow I'll apply it to the ship in own box/container. If it's fast paced I'll upgrade it to a box.

But the safe way is to always ship in amazon packaging. From there it can't make it past SLAM without being in at least a box or other form of packing. Though it
might be in one of these mailers too OP got.
I was wondering why I was getting naked boxes. All it resulted in for me was getting boxes that clearly looked like it was opened and retaped hastily and a lot more
packages stolen from my porch.
This needs way more upvotes.
What other good tips and tricks ya got?
They're doing SIOB just... *way* too often with expensive stuff.
In a way I like this because it does seem more environmentally sound, but in another way I hate it because I don't want people to see what I'm getting delivered.
Porch pirates are already a huge issue. I really don't want to encourage them by them being able to see when someone is taking delivery of a nice set of
headphones or some other high ticket item.
Funny. I've asked numerous times for gift receipt and seldom have received them.
I wonder if my local shipping area is just lazy.
thank god package theft isn't already a widespread problem. I'm sure plainly marking which small & convenient to swipe boxes contain electronics and other high
value items will only help to further combat this non-existent problem.
I mean, on the surface this does seem like a good idea. I appreciate the effort to be more environmentally friendly/less wasteful. It just sucks that it's resulting in
more damaged goods being delivered to people, which ultimately leads to even more waste.
Thank you for the trick. I'll definitely be using it.

I return things that arrive in damaged containers too, depending on what it was. Especially for stuff like CD or Blu Ray cases (yeah I still buy CDs lol). The way I see
it, I'm not just paying for the disc, I'm paying for the nice looking case too.
They (sort of) have a fix for this now.

PS in the Sort Centers now has access to an auditing tool, so if delicate items come through in shitty packaging or without packaging, we can flag them for
reevaluation at the FCs. When I get vinyls with a sticker slapped on the sleeve, I audit the items using their ASINs and hope that someone somewhere is taking
notes and won't do it again.

However, it's just an ass-backwards response to a problem that shouldn't exist in the first place. It would make more sense to just have someone evaluate inventory
as it comes into the FC based on how delicate it is, if it's a sensitive item that needs packaging because of what it is (adult diapers, lingerie, etc.).

Go Amazon, always finding the worst possible solutions to the problems you make for yourself.
can’t argue with that. i’ve gotten some very hard books to find thanks to Thriftbooks.
there's a UK version! https://uk.bookshop.org/
That's awesome! Thank you! Though I do still wish I had a physical store I could browse.
You are amazing my friend!!!
Unfortunately I don't live that side of the border.
Coulda sworn that I had fixed that typo. Fixed it now tho thank you
It's usually like $15 per book but I do get the sentiment.
Used to work for a bookstore, and we bought all the inventory for 60% of the list price (if you ordered directly from the publisher we could get it for 50%).

So sometimes Amazon sells books at a loss, but if the discount is only 20%, then no, they’re still making a profit.
That might be how much it costs when you have to amortize the expenses of leasing a local bookstore and holding inventory there across how many books it sells
per month. Plus the bookstore taking some profit. Amazon is definitely not selling most things at a loss.
Weirdly last time I had an issue Amazon directed me to call the carrier they used to ship it and deal with them, which I found a little shitty since I ordered it from
Amazon and they picked the carrier who delivered it to the wrong address.
No, I looked at a different order that's still in transit.
Could be I got lucky.
It is fire.
It is death.
Every now and then having kids sounds enjoyable. I’m glad you seem like a good parent. I wouldn’t have had the chance and I’m not parent material but I’d have
loved in some world to have been a dad.
I get my sharpie out and put some eyes and teeth on the first bag. Grandson plays with it for hours.
That's fairly common, includes electronics and GPU sometimes too. I suggest always getting it bundled with another item.
I ordered a pack of 4 rechargeable AAA batteries. They were shrink-wrapped in a little brick about 2" square. They were shipped in a box 12" x 8", and immobilized
by about a dozen inflated plastic pillows.
That just happened to me. It was also wet for some reason even though it didn't rain and the delivery location was covered.
You at least got a box. When I ordered a new bike tire they just zip-tied a label to the tire itself and sent it as-is.
Same I got a textbook in a 5 foot long box. I think there was a 1ftx1ft square of packing paper on with it
It's because the pillows would be wider than any smaller boxes. The computer system doesn't care if you'd be able to stuff them into a smaller box, it doesn't know
the malleability of the item, just dimensions. The packing material used really isn't ever necessarily intended to protect the item, but to prevent the item from
slamming around inside the box, as that would cause issues with the transportation of all the packages
I got a roll of bubble wrap and they wrapped it in bubble wrap
I do that too. Any time a package shows up. Eventually I get rid of the box or paper bag or whatever while they're napping.
I recommend Powell’s Books in Portland. I buy most of my books directly from them now. I just make larger orders from my wishlist since I have to pay for shipping.

Biggest bookstore in the world, they have a huge selection that’s always changing including toooons of used stuff
Do you buy paperback or soft covers? I live in the same province and just had a hardcover delivered on Sunday, it came in a box. The last softcover I ordered came
in an envelope like you described.
I got a tub of duck food today, in a big box carefully padded
The litter does need to be packaged because it tends to get smashed up.
Fellow Ontariariarian. Multiple times I've gotten a single already boxed 35g package of ointment in a giant box surrounded by packing. I recycle it, but what a
fucking giant waste of energy and space.
Order socks at the same time, poof comes in a box
I get cat litter off Amazon and they keep sending the bucket of it in a box, sometimes with packaging! It's so odd, especially since the reviews indicate they used to
send it as is.
I just refer to my boxes as "overclocked"....
When it says "Sold by Amazon" does it give you a different "seller" on your end?
The difference between neatly stacking something and a terrible shifting pile is the difference between uniform-sized boxes and a bunch of boxes in twenty different
sizes.

How you decide on box size depends on the size distribution of products, but using some kind of standardized system, like a 2:1 ratio of dimensions each step, at
least lets you pack efficiently ***sometimes***.

See also the container ship revolution in world trade, where port costs went down by several orders of magnitude because of container standardization.
I think they're saying yarn doesn't stack well, so it would be like : you can safely stack more lego pieces than tic tac pieces in a space, the tic tacs might shift around
a lot during transit but the legos will be more secure and safer to stack higher.
Just be forewarned, bookshop can be slow as hell! Especially since the pandemic began. I think they're just drop shipping from Ingram (major book distributor), but
at least the product comes intact and some of the proceeds go to alternative outlets. And fwiw their promotional emails don't come off to me me as completely
artificial pandering the way AMZN's do.
Amazon is really bad at communicating to the customer whether they are buying right from Amazon or from some third-party seller. It's all listed there, yeah, but the
design of it does nothing to ensure the info pops.
Took the words right out of my mouth.
They wouldn't replace?
It's time to toss the dice
My sister would know more than me. I wish I grew up with the series like she did but I was so I intimated by the size of the books and I didn't give them a chance.
My sister would reread the books everytime a new one came out. She reads so much faster than me.
Glad to help. Jordan's so enthusiastic about adding so many characters.
Stopped halfway thru the 12th! Lol that’s mind blowing to me to quit when you’re that invested. If it helps you feel any better (or worse), I thought books 13 and 14
were the best of them all and the ending was super satisfying.
It's worth it! I took years off after I got bored with the then-incomplete series, then picked them back up earlier this year. Enjoy!
First person I’ve heard of to get past book 10, and not finish. (The joke being that 10 is a slog to most people)
As much as we rip on him for braid tugging and arms folded under bosoms, Jordan really did create some awesome female characters. Moiraine, Egwene, and
Nynaeve are priceless.
I'll see if I can buy some used copies online.. sounds great.
Ah, I haven't seen those yet, or at least none have come through my station.

I can't believe I forgot about the Ship In Amazon Packaging! I only ever see those alongside the in-box receipts, and I just forgot they were separate requests.
Sadly those packages also go through slams now as well. SIOC, poly, and those recycled polys are being sent through (at least at the sites I work with).

Source: Our metrics are still recovering slowly.

Hey, thank you!

The one caveat is that gift receipt items can still be put into those horrible paper bags and the plastic polybags, but at the very least that's better than leaving your
items hanging out in the open for no good reason.

Also, as an Amazon employee, I feel morally obligated to recommend shopping at local bookstores if at all possible! Because fuck Amazon.
Buy locally. Get it today.
Oh, man, where to start?

I would say the most important one is to try not to order any food items off of Amazon unless they're shelf-stable for a very long time. Locations that store and ship
food items recently removed something called a "pad date," which is a date before the expiration date and which *was* the final date they were allowed to ship an
item out. With that gone, they can ship food out on the very date it expires and it will arrive at the customer's location already expired. Kinda junky, in my opinion.

Don't order cat litter, dog food, or reams of paper unless you want your mail carrier and everyone who handled the package before to hate you (none of these items
are ever packed correctly and they often burst through their packages and delay delivery).

If you have to order multiple items, some of which are heavy and bulky and some of which are delicate, do two separate orders if at all possible to prevent the
delicates and the bulkys (bulkies?) from being shipped in the same box and damaging something.

The gift receipt one is also a good trick in case you're ordering something expensive/nice looking and you don't want the sticker put on the product itself. Lots of
people do this for vacuum cleaners. By requesting a receipt, you're ensuring that some lazy sack (c'est moi) won't just slap a sticker on the manufacturer's vacuum
cleaner box and send it out like that, letting every would-be thief in the area know what you've ordered. Obviously, there will still be a big honking Amazon box on
your porch, but at least there's a little mystery in that scenario.

There's more that I'm probably forgetting, but they're not coming to mind at the moment. It's been a long day! If you are ever curious, feel free to join the AmazonFC
subreddit or any of the Amazon employee subreddits. A lot of it is just complaining, but you sometimes find interesting information on changes made in other
buildings and processes. That's how I found out about the pad date getting nixed.
You're preaching to the choir. I've seen laptops and tablets come through with the sticker on the box. It drives me crazy. I audit what I can, but I'm just one lady. If I
get pulled into any department meetings soon, I'll try to bring it up to upper management.
Yeah, it really is unfortunate. It would be preferable to have more recycled packaging and less plastic!
also [https://www.hive.co.uk/](https://www.hive.co.uk/) you can nominate your favourite store and they get a percentage of the sale , they get 10% if you get
something delivered. 25% if you collect from store . My fave is Five Leaves, which is tiny and focuses on local authors, poetry and politics/sociology , ordering via
Hive means that even if I'm not buying something they have in, they can still sell it me without having to order multiples, it makes every small bookshop a much
bigger bookshop
I think bookshop.org lets you find their affiliated bookstores, IIRC.
Totally get that! Nothing can really replace browsing stacks.
That's odd, because last time I had an issue, within the past year, they took care of it without any questions asked. You should have asked to speak to a supervisor
if you didn't.
In my experience, the carrier doesn't want to deal with the person it is being delivered to and will only deal with the shipper. Maybe Amazon has enough pull to
allow that rule to be bent?

I'd definitely be talking to a manager about that.
TROGDOOOOOOOR
I'm a parent, and every now and then having kids sounds enjoyable to me too :P
You could always volunteer at a local Big Brothers, Big Sisters chapter! They always need adults to help mentor kids there.
Until they pop them and scare the shit out of you. Then run off and hide them to scare you at select times in the future.
This comment sure makes you seem like parent material
Ah, I feel the same. In this life, it was never in my cards to have been a parent, but maybe in some other world.
lol - until they just split it into two shipments, one with your sensitive electronics shipped with nothing but a label and the companion cable you ordered along with it
in a separate box stuffed with paper or plastic bubbles ¯\\\_( )\_/¯
Back, well over a decade ago when newegg was still a good place, I had that problem with hard drives. They would ship them in a tiny box with almost no padding,
and would get failures. If I ordered something else small, like a SATA cable with it, then both were packaged together and a lot better. Meanwhile, if I bought a
micro SD card, it came in 4 boxes that were 5x bigger than the box the hard drive came in.
So with stuff like that, Amazon gives vendors options for how they want stuff shipped. Vendors who want to save money may select that we can "SIOC" or ship in
own container. There are some safeguards, but they require people to hit some buttons and read their screen when they're packing. I've seen a 3060 Ti that was
SIOC'ed then returned with water damage on the outside, still sealed when it was returned and it had to be destroyed. The vendor was upset, but they sold it for
like an absurd price, so they can go fuck themselves.
in case it got cold and wanted a blanket
My textbooks come in those stupid paper envelopes. I once got a Roomba and it came in the largest possible sized box Amazon has. And they put like 10ft of that
paper padding on it
[deleted]
I've received items from amazon just tossed in a box with no packing materials, and the time a set of glasses I ordered was shipped that way the results were
predictable.
They also have a ton of in-store signings by an impressively diverse array of writers, and usually make a decent number of them available to order. I've ordered
several signed books this way over the years. Best I can remember, I don't think any of them were priced higher than cover price.
It's wild just how big they are, I've been there a few times and it's hard to take in more than a couple sections at a time.
Powells is so amazing. When i visited Portland recently i spent hours there. Found a hard cover copy of Heat by Bill Buford, didn't even know they printed that book
hardcover. Also found a hardcover of Neil Gaimans Norse Mythology, was only able to find paperbacks of those two before. That place is book lovers heaven.
Spent almost $200.00 and walked out with a fucking pile of new stuff to read.
You ordered a tub of bread?
The entire publishing industry is experiencing a major disruption right now because of the pandemic, and has been to some degree or another for about 3-4 years,
begun before but exacerbated by covid. A few years ago there were already paper shortages hitting the industry for complex global manufacturing reasons, and
that situation never fully resolved before pandemic related shipping and material shortage issues hit.

Right now the supply lines and shortages are about the worst they've ever been, and booksellers are advising customers that they should shop very early, as in
NOW, for xmas or sellers can't remotely guarantee they'll be able to get things shipped in time. Which is my tl;dr way of saying, I'm not surprised that Bookshop has
been slow. This is without even discussing the delays caused by the US (and UK) political fuckups that have dragged out delivery times in their postal systems!

Basically, we should probably all get used to the idea that the Extreme Convenience we've gotten used to in developed countries in the 2010's may not ever fully
come back, because the "temporary" delays and shortages we've been seeing over the past few years are well on their way to becoming systemic.
Appreciate the warning!

With books, most of the time slow is no big deal unless I'm dying to read something RIGHT NOW - and that's rare, because my "to read" pile is always piled high.
There is a reason for that, they don't want you to know you're buying from a third-party for risk of you buying directly at the third party. Most sites similar to Amazon
are like that.
A couple words of advice.. if you find that books 8, 9, and 10 are a bit slow, just push through. They pick back up in 11 and from there it's a rollercoaster through to
the end.
My site is using them to did yours drop polymer bags earlier this year only to bring them right back? Everyone I know on slam or problem solve hate them and flats
induct sorter area because obviously.
Since Amazon week reimburse a person who complains about expired food, is this just a numbers game? Like, do they just do that (sending it food basically on the
expiration date) by default and *hope* the customers don't complain??
FYI, would you be interested in getting rid of the amazon newsbot on the main Amazon page? Everyone seems to hate it and it stifles actual discussion.
Do you know why Amazon is so notorious for shipping food that smells like diesel fumes? Just incompetence?
>If you have to order multiple items, some of which are heavy and bulky and some of which are delicate, do two separate orders if at all possible to prevent the
delicates and the bulkys (bulkies?) from being shipped in the same box and damaging something.

I'm German so ymmv, but at least here from a customer point of view, this does NOT work. Orders will be separated or combined as the algorythm decides and
depending on shipment origins and times. Only way to circumvent this would be to wait until something has been shipped before you place the next order.
They sent me a graphics card without an overbox. During the shortage. Why not just go put it on the ground at college campus. Probably the only way to get it
stolen faster.
Yep, I've had a handful of issues with amazon in the 20 years I've been using them, and every single time they've fixed everything, no fuss, no complaints. The
quality of their customer service is pretty much the main reason to use them, for me. If something goes wrong, I know it will be fixed, quickly.
it was more of an automated system. "Wheres my package?" they told me to either call the carrier directly or wait a few days. Perhaps the worlds just so busy and
shipping companies are so busy they don't need to care as much if you get your shit or not.
Dad here. Kids are great like a solid 25% of the time. Other 75% is fighting, asking you to get something for them, not doing what you want them to do, or doing silly
shit and getting injured.
I dated a girl on high school and her father had committed suicide. She had a younger brother that was 8 or 9 when it happened. I think getting a Big Brother pretty
much saved his life at the time. A great organization.
It's a surprise tool that will help us later.
"Ship in gift packaging"

Doesn't always work but most of the time it gets the item into another box
>I've seen a 3060 Ti that was SIOC'ed

Jesus, that's just asking for the courier to steal it.
Nah that is a blanket for you when you're livin on the streets from spending all your money on textbooks.
I mean yeah, that's what happens when they'll literally hire anyone, and don't really care about the quality of packing as long as you are meeting quotas. But some
of actually give a fuck and do things right. Most dont
I left my wife alone in Powell's on a trip years ago. Went back about 2 hours later and found her just staring at the shelves, not moving. She was in sensory
overload. Had to gently take her out of there and go find a coffee place to sit down and relax.

We did go back and ended up buying a suitcase somewhere along the way to bring back all of the books she bought.
All good points! I remember reading about the paper/supply issues, and have no doubt it caused ripples that still affect the industry. I don't really imagine supply line
shortages in publishing would directly impact the distribution of already-manufactured and warehoused books, but delivery/shipping has its own major issues (even
aside from the pandemic) that are getting bad again lately.
I can't say for certain. I'm a Tier 1, the lowest rung, and I only see operations from a certain viewpoint.

I'm sure that is at least part of the reason, though. If you've got a bunch of food that is essentially expired but you can still send it out and try to turn a profit on it, you
might as well try.
I personally do not like it for the reasons you listed. It really just clutters up the subreddit.

If it weren't fully deleted, it might be nice to just curb some of its automated functions, like Alexa/Echo Saturday and its other "daily" threads. There's very little
activity in those threads that I've seen, and seeing so many of a subreddit's posts be from a bot makes the subreddit itself seem a little...dead? It's hard to describe,
but it makes it feel a bit weird participating, especially as someone who is newer to Reddit.
Hah! No, I'm not quite sure. I have ordered some clothing in the past that arrived to my house and it absolutely reeked of chemical fumes. Something might have
spilled on them in transit, or they could have been stored next to something in the warehouse that leaked, but I can't say for certain.
Oh god, that's hysterical. I'm surprised it wasn't just swiped at the fulfillment center to be honest.
Same, until recently. It made me pause because that was a part I liked, shit got delivered to the wrong address? Not my problem. Suddenly now it is.
Oh my. I have a feeling that would happen to me.
I'm planning a hostile takeover of the subreddit to remove the bot, they don't allow polls on the front page but I'm pretty sure most people would vote to get rid of the
bot. You can't even link news articles anymore. It's like the biggest company in the world and fairly controversial but the subreddit is dead. So I want to see if
people want to get rid of it.
It was literally stolen instantly. A guy walked right up behind the Amazon driver and snatched it. He got pinched for B&E later, so at least he got his due.
Curious. One thing I have noticed is that my family in the USA complain a hell of a lot more about amazon's customer service than people here in the UK. Perhaps
there are different policies in different locations which mean the service is of variable quality.
Haha, good luck to you, man. I think removing the bot would be a good start for sure.
Oof, at least he got got. I assume you got a refund for the stolen stuff as well?
They had to refund since there were no more cards. I was... displeased since the build was a present for a friend. He's using a 5 year old 980 instead :(

At least 3070's are back in stock a bunch of places now.
I'm not talking about mystery books, where a detective tries to solve a case and gather information.

I'm talking about books where the driving action kicks off with an issue that was known by the characters from the start, but which are only revealed to the readers
at the end, usually at the climax.

For example, in *The God of Small Things* by Arundhati Roy, the entire book deals with what happened to two siblings during their childhood to make to make one
of them damaged as an adult. I absolutely loved that book, and it was amazing every page. I don't remember being frustrated by the hidden knowledge.

In contrast, I just started *Lake of the Woods* by Tim O'Brien. This is not really a spoiler, since it happens in the first ten pages - the "plot" starts off when someone
writes a hit piece that tanks the main character's political ambitions. I'm about 60 pages in, and it is becoming more clear that the book is going to jump around the
hit piece for the rest of the book, likely without revealing its contents until the end. It's already making me frustrated because I just want to know. Maybe my
patience has gotten worse since reading *The God of Small Things.*

Anyway, I was just interested in seeing what others thought. It's a framing device that I could see leading to reader frustration, as the only reason for the mystery is
an intentional plot device by the author. There is no built in explanation for why the reader wouldn't know it. But, in the right hands, it can be a wonderful framing
device that sucks you in and makes you feel like you are learning a forbidden secret that the characters won't even acknowledge to themselves.
It depends. If the narrative makes it clear that the main character is hiding or refusing to acknowledge a bit of their past, and they slowly reveal more throughout the
book, that’s fine. A good example is Once There Were Wolves by Charlotte McConaghy. However, if it comes out of nowhere then it seems like lazy writing.
I’ve noticed this trend lately with some YA-type thrillers. The characters keep referencing “The Incident” (or a similar thing-that-shall-not-be-named) which ends up
being a catalyst for whatever happens in the book. The characters know about it, and the events are happening in chronological order, but the reader doesn’t learn
it until *the big reveal* at the end. It can be done well, but lately I feel like it isn’t being done well, and it’s tiring. I don’t feel the suspense when it’s drawn out for the
whole book - I just feel annoyed that I still don’t have the context.
I'll just join the "it depends: is the writer good enough at their job to pull it off?" _Catch-22_ follows Yossarian through a series of ever-more-traumatic events, but not
in chronological order; it's not until the end that we see the event that drove the rest of the book forward. We've heard about it a hundred times by then, but never in
enough detail to know why it's the emotional core of the main characters journey.
For me it depends on what the info is and how well hidden it is. Whether or not the book is a mystery, I am generally a fan of hidden pieces for the reader to try to
solve or to be surprised by later. I especially like it when the information that’s revealed completely shifts the tone of a situation or character and suddenly someone
you hated is a hero or the protagonist is actually a villain.

What I don’t like is when they just beat around the bush and drop hints and it’s blatantly obvious what the big secret is but no one will say it outright and then there’s
a big reveal as if we didn’t already know. I also don’t like when too much information is withheld and it’s hard to even follow the plot because too much is missing.

I haven’t read either of the books you mentioned so I can’t comment on those directly, but there’s a fine line between my first examples and my last examples. And
it sounds like your current book is maybe a bit far on the side of “too much withheld”. At least for my taste.
I've often seen this done in a butchered manner, but I can think of a few ways in which it's been done brilliantly, via a narrator in denial, via an unreliable narrator,
and finally when an event itself is held back by the narrator.

When a thing itself is hidden from the narrator, you discover with them a buried secret, one they themselves perhaps have buried, or inadvertently failed to realize
the significance of. This is something Ishiguro is a master of. *The Buried Giant* very closely follows this structure (it's even in the title of the book!). Poor execution
of this looks like the narrator knowing there is some big event they can't remember and chasing it. They don't come to a realization, they literally just "remember it".

Another is the unreliable narrator. Wolfe's *The Book of the New Sun* series is absolutely incredible at this. The best examples of this don't outright lie, but instead,
self justify and mislead. *Lolita* is another excellent example. Humbert never *lies* to us, but over time a reader should realize he is a sick mind justifying himself.
Poor execution here relies on the narrator just lying to you.

The final way is like *The God of Small Things*, where we examine the leadup and come down from an event. The event itself is held secret. An excellent
execution looks at all the subtle ways an event can shape our lives. How we interrupt the world through the lens of our experience and then reveal what that
experience was. Poor executions simply use the event as a mystery that drives a plot. The event itself is held as a secret to entice the reader, not to help them
better understand the character.
As with most writing conventions, it depends on the quality of the writing.

I absolutely love the fantasy series *The Malazan Book of the Fallen*, in which the author, Steven Erikson, is extremely stingy with explanatory information. Since
it's a fantasy, this adds to the mystery, since we don't even know how the world works or who inhabits it. We must piece it together and it takes a while. In fact I
recommend reading the ten-book series three times to really understand it.

Erikson modeled his epic in part on Homer's *The Iliad*, which starts in the middle of the Trojan War and never launches into any kind of long explanation of what
happened before. The effect on modern readers may be in part unintentional, since a contemporary audience would have been familiar with Greek mythology. But
modern readers must piece together what happened as best they can based on Homer's clues.

Erikson also drew on his experience as an anthropologist, digging up the remains of past peoples and attempting to figure out who they were and what happened
to them based on those remains. I find the game fascinating, but it's not for everyone.
This is one of the reasons I don’t do well with thrillers/suspense. So many books are written where the MC just keeps referencing something that happened in the
past and instead of telling us what it is, they just keep building it up. The last one I read did this horribly The Last Time I Lied-Riley Sager.
I think it comes down to art. To authorial craft. If you find it frustrating, then the author wasn't doing it right. (At least for you.)

If you are interested in this topic, and you don't mind an academic literary / linguistic text, Vera Tobin's *Elements of Surprise* gets into this quite a bit.
If it's character development, sure. If it's literary clickbait, then nah.
I think it depends entirely on how it is written. I read The Woman In the Window and there was a key piece of information that was brought up several times, but the
actual truth wasn't revealed until like halfway through the book. I really liked that book and couldn't put it down. However, there was plenty of foreshadowing to what
was happening. I think that is the key. If someone is great at foreshadowing then it can be well written, if they aren't then it just looks sloppy.
Basically when they make it that big a suspense the explanation better be worth it. Another one comes to mind, The Silent Patient, we find out the reason why she
was silent only towards the last few pages, and why was it? >!Because she didn’t have anything to say?!< I’m so glad I dnf’d the book and just read the spoiler.
I read Truly, Madly, Guilty by Liane Moriarty thinking it would be a thriller mystery (it's not) but what bugged me is that everything that's going on in the main
characters' lives is because of some big thing that happened at "the barbecue". They are constantly referring to "the barbecue" and "what happened". Eventually,
near the end of the book, it's revealed what happened. I'm not going to spoil it but this entire book gets to you to keep reading by dangling teasers and end-of-
chapter cliff-hangers over you, only for it to be nothing. If the barbecue event had been at the beginning of the book and the rest was everyone dealing with the
aftermath, nobody would have kept reading.
Personally I think it's like any other literary device. It depends on how well the author pulls it off. I don't like it when it feels the whole point of the work is just to get
to this big reveal at the end (dum dum DUM!).

I think it worked in the Roy book for two reasons. First off, the unraveling of the past story was concurrent with the present one so it wasn't like it was just dancing
around this mystery of WHAT HAPPENED but rather like you were seeing how it all relates to one another. Second, it wasn't written as if the traumatic story was
saved to be shocking in the end- you knew pretty early on that a girl had died (this is not a spoiler since the fact that a girl had died is in the very beginning of the
book, it's the circumstances which unravel) and also because there is a shocking ending that you don't expect. So it all works.

I haven't read the other book you mentioned, but I did recently (maybe last year?) read Carolina de Robertis "Perla" and it is similar to what you described. Yes after
some time, I found it annoying, especially as after you figure out exactly what the traumatic thing is that we've been dancing around as you say, the book doesn't
really do much else with it. No real resolution. We see how the character handles the info and also reevaluates her life, and it's clever to include the whole ghost
plot, but it doesn't go anywhere at the end.

Murakami's Colorful Tazaki does a similar thing, but I think it works better because the book is actually about a guy getting closure and clarity over a thing that
happened to him- which made it work a little better in my opinion because although he knew what had happened to him and we didnt', he didn't know why or how-
he was finding that out for himself as we were finding out all of it. And we see his life until then and after, shaped by all this. So it didn't feel annoying, especially
since the ending set a new resolution. Things will never be "fixed", but now everyone understands. Bittersweet.

&#x200B;

So it seems like what I'm saying is, IMO it depends on the ending?

God, I love it, honestly.

I recently read *The Maltese Falcon*, which presents the whole plot without ever revealing any of the characters internal thoughts, and boy oh boy did it get me.

Spoilers: >!By the end of the book, I really believed Detective Spade was a real crooked piece of work, but the ending reveals that, while he's a real piece of work,
he probably isn't crooked. It's left ambiguous just how much of his apparent complicity in crimes was merely a fact finding ruse, and Spade says himself that, who
knows, had he been able to get a hold of the $2 million they were promising him, he might not have arrested the whole lot. But all that is ambiguous - at the end, all
we know is that, given the circumstances, Spade appears to have done what he had to do to find and arrest the people who murdered his partner, even when it
caused him the amount of heartache he's capable of.!< The ambiguity produced by the lack of an internal monologue just made it so good!
I think the key to whether a secret like that is tantalizing or frustrating depends on several possibilities:

\-- Is there a reason why the characters are avoiding talking about it, or thinking about it? (Like trauma, or not understanding what they know).

\-- Is the secret "teased" by the author in such a way (through tone, or dropping hints) that the tension around it builds in a satisfying way?

\-- Are the stakes around the secret worth the buildup? If the secret actually turns out to be minor, or not really proportional to the big deal people are making about
it, it's going to fall flat.

\--Is the secret actually a surprise, or can the reader figure it out early on? If they've been waiting for a big "reveal" that turns out to be something they already took
as a given, it's going to be a letdown.
It really depends. In general I hate it.
But in the Gateway trilogy by Frederick Pohl, it was done very well.
I enjoyed to get more and more bits about what happend and why the main character was acting like he does.
I have been reading Annihilation and the rest of the Southern Reach trilogy and characters often withhold information. Things do get explained later on but only after
quite some time throughout the book. I thought it was all really well written.
I think it’s all in how it’s used.
Usually it kind of offends me, because it's a cheap way to make the plot more interesting.
If you want the complete opposite of that, read “Project Hail Mary” you learn everything with the character. Even his name and all his memories
*The Guest List* by Lucy Foley does this. I did feel a little frustrated in the beginning but in the end I think it was done well and was a fun read, but nothing more.
I think it's all about what is withheld. To use the hit piece as an example, I think I would be just as annoyed as you are with not revealing the contents of it. But on
the other hand, I think it would be really interesting if a book had a hit piece as a story element, and danced around whether or not the hit piece was actually true.
Definitely depends on how good the writer is. I think it only works for me if the "big event" or whatever isn't actually the focal point of the story. In your first example,
it sounds like -- though their childhood was important -- the actual plot and themes of the book deal with things happening in the present day. Whereas for the hit
piece, it's a central point of the main plot, so hiding it is just frustrating.
It depends, the issue I have with it is if it gets built up too much. The best example I have is the gentleman bastards books. Without spoiling anything, one character
is a constant reference in the first two books, how smart, important ect. By the time I finished the second book however I was basically done with the series as a
whole, in part because the lack of information after two full books had become frustrating instead of entertaining.
Icelandic sagas never give away what the characters are thinking. You get to infer it from their actions. There are some weird characters in there, motivated by
Odin knows what. You get to the end and think, why on earth would anybody DO that? Which is the way real life is.

[Downvoted. Why? What's your problem?]
Depends on the book. In A Little Life, it annoyed the shit out of me. It was like, just fucking tell us already.
It’s a case by case thing for me.
i can't even imagine how you felt when reading the trial by Kafka lmao
Imo, it's just poor writing.
Depends. Needs to be subtle i guess
I don't love it, and I hate it EVEN more when the reader is given info, but the character doesn't figure it out for a long time. My biggest gripe with Tad Williams is that
he gives us the reader the info the Character should have, but then denies it from the character for hundreds of pages...feels tedious and boring as a result. If you're
going to hide something from your character, hide it from me as well.

If knowledge is going to be hid from the reader, then it needs to not only serve a purpose, but you ALSO need to give the reader a lot of other stuff to focus on so
it's not the only thing driving me forward. If all I have is some secret you're keeping from me...then I'm going to get annoyed.
Just read ‘Stonemouth’ by Iain Banks, that does exactly this. I think for the first 30 pages or so it annoyed me, and there was a bit to much ‘of course, that was
before it all went wrong and I had to flee the town five years ago,’ but ultimately I think it worked. The timeline jumps back and forth, and what happened is revealed
through the flashback. The protagonist never describes it to the reader because he’s describing what happens in the present moment. The two timelines merge
very elegantly once you have all the relevant knowledge. Certainly I was absolutely hooked throughout the second-half of the novel.
It makes me think of the classic Sherlock Holmes stories.
Can be great if done smartly, like discworld.
I recently read Second Foundation by Isaac Asimov which does this a lot. All the characters are searching for a location, and multiple times it will be used as a
chapter ending cliffhanger that a character has just discovered the location! Then we move on to another character. I thought it was fine in this case because the
whole point of the story was the search for this place, so I don't expect it to be revealed early on.
I think it can work really well in some cases, mostly if the character isn’t the narrator or we don’t get their POV. Like poriots last case, I forget what that ones called
that led to a really good twist. I also think it works in some instances with Sherlock Holmes stories. However it does get obnoxious in other instances where it feels
like a cheap way out so I kind of feel like it works more with a character that you think you know but aren’t actually in their head.
It's just a case by case basis. If it's done well it's done well.
It annoys me sometimes in books where we are coming to a climactic event (often towards the end but sometimes you find smaller climactic events dotted
throughout a novel) where the POV character has done work “behind the scenes” that impacts the outcome. So for example everything is going against them and
all of a sudden whoosh problem solved and we learn that the POV character has orchestrated the events to unfold in a certain way without us realising. Sometimes,
not always, but sometimes it feels a little deus ex machina.
There's been several books I've read that use this to convey the build-up to a climax.

Personally while I enjoy the payoff, it does lead me to think I've misread/didn't read some important bit of information. Plus, its not like writer can tell you they're
doing that, it spoils the climax.
I love it, but not when it is dangled in front of you. The more subtle the better. Along the lines of unreliable narrators, which I love.
I very much don't like it, is my first answer. There's exceptions in how it's executed. If it's something like the first book in the series, or even over a longer series (just
remembered Alex Verus) and it's about slowly revealing the character's backstory that's ok. If the main character lied to me directly about his past, that's less ok
(think this might be happened in The Dirty Streets of Heaven, not sure)
However. If it's something like the main character and his friends are planning l, and she goes "ok, here's the plan" and then there's a page break? Fuck no!
Immersion ruined. I'm supposed to be following her POV, not ...whatever the fuck that is.
There *are* ways to still do the unspoken plan. Like if we time skipped 3 days in which they were collecting gear/doing recon and it's revealed they planned things
during that time, that's fine.
But don't do a cheap cutaway, that turns me off big time. Its why I stopped reading a couple of things.
The Practical Guide to Evil did both of the above methods a few times, it really annoyed me with the former, but the latter was fine and felt organic, especially in a
story where The Unspoken Plan has weight behind it.
The same aspect of a story can be good or bad depending how it is used. If it is used in a clever way that makes the story interesting, and it is slowly unraveled or
bluntly revealed without a previous hint for shock value, it can be good. But if it is the gimmick that supports the whole story and it is artificially postponed to keep
the story going, it can be extremely bad.

Of course that also depends of the perception of the reader. What it is good for one reader may not be enough for another, since it amounts to the level of
intelligence, interest for the story and past experiences.
It's generally used poorly and takes away from the immersion.
I think it's easier to make work than the other way around. If you know something and are just waiting for the main character to figure it out, that can really drag
down a story.

Both can be tricky to write, feeling too far ahead or behind your main character can hamper enjoyment, but I think have a mystery that is slowly teased out that the
main character is aware of can be enjoyable if done well.
I read the Harry Dresden books by Jim Butcher and he is constantly doing this. But when he does it (deliberately to mess with the reader) he includes a reason.
Either due to running from danger, a mind reading demon, magical bugs, or just because it might affect the outcome.

Frustrating but tension building.
I think like most literary devices it can be used well or poorly. Catch-22 does an incredible job of slowly filling in the reader with information the characters know.
Well, if the book makes that info the important thing that needs to be revealed and makes a big deal about it when it is finally revealed, then I'll get annoyed cuz
that's bad writing.

If that information doesn't matter and the focus is on the characters and their feelings and actions as a result of the thing we don't know about, or how they're
dealing with the aftermath of it, then I'm OK with it.

I mean, in real life you don't always get to know why a friend acts weird around chickens, you just know that they do. And maybe you'll find out that they were acted
by a chicken as a child or maybe not.
I don't mind hidden knowledge, unless it's the sort of "If only I knew the true answer then, but I can't tell you that now, you aren't ready..."
As I think about this, so many favorite books use this in some form or another.

_Times Arrow_ is from the perspective of a consciousness that doesn't know the truth, but that occupies a body that has a very definite past

_The Book of the New Sun_ is from the perspective of someone who assures us that he forgets nothing and is always truthful. But often leaves important gaps, and
sometimes lies intentionally; figuring out what he's covering for is much of the fun of the book.
I think it’s cool, as long as it’s not a cheap/lazy plot device, which obviously goes for every single narrative trope there is. One of my biggest fiction pet peeves is
when the POV character is super generic and boring because they’re supposed to be an audience stand-in. When the POV character is an unreliable narrator, or
does things that the audience isn’t supposed to agree with, or generally just acts like an actual person with their own agency and motivations, it’s way more
interesting to read about. So if the character has a secret or just knows things the audience doesn’t, it really helps them stand out as their own distinct individual
who isn’t *meant* to be projected onto by the reader.

I agree that if the author is going to keep information hidden from you for most of the story, there should be an actual reason for it. Everything leading up to it
should be recontextualised by the Big Reveal. If it wouldn’t change the narrative to tell us that information from the get-go, then you should just tell us right away
instead of smacking us over the head with obvious hints that there’s a big secret for 2/3rds of the book.
I don't like it because it seems cheap. Similar to having a complex issue that's solved with time travel
I think The Expanse does this really well! It helps connect events that are happening in different locations which is absolutely key in a series like that. They also
switch up the POV characters so you can get inside the heads of characters you’ve grown to love.
I dislike it because it seems like the author is pulling stuff from their ass later on. I am reading a Leigh Bardugo book and she will add shit in later that was never
talked about before and it seems lazy as fuck. For example, Kaz is in a cell for two days and all of a sudden he vomits up a lock picking kit! Literally multiple
chapters planning out the event of this book and the lock picking kit is never mentioned. As an after thought she said that Kaz had been swallowing and vomiting
them up every hour for two days. Just lazy.
It feels like lazy writing sometimes. Like chuck palaniuk for example. It was interesting the first time you read one of his books to have that twist. But then you read
another and it's kind of just a big let down to be like "oh ok that's just the same thing again where the protagonist is just not honest about their circumstances," it's
like a twist but a lazy one where it just becomes predictable.

The movie version of this are the oceans movies. So much wasted plot to just be like "just kidding! There was a whole other scheme going on that I decided not to
tell you about!"

Its like that episode of bobs burgers with the dinner theater. And she is all "yeah it's a twist." And the audience says "that's not a twist, it's just a lie."

Not a perfect fit but The Pelican Brief jumped to mind. Just about every character of any interest knows the nugget of information that drives the plot…but we don’t.
Don’t get me wrong, it was fun, but I only want information withheld if I’m identifying with at least one major character who is also in the dark.
It always depends on execution.

Like, in a SFF novel, I think it makes sense for the narrator not to explicitly explain something that would be mundane or just known by everyone, even if that
information is important to the novel. Ideally, the writer would give us enough context and clues to make sense of it without explicit definitions.
I’m not totally into reading… but for those that are, does this need a spoiler tag?

Also I like that sort of literary concept sounds fun.
Honestly, it always feels cheap to me. Manufactured tension when in fact there's never any real conflict. Most of Stephen Hunter's books have this problem. It's
basically formulaic for him at this point.
Kazuo Ishiguro is the master at this. I highly recommend The Remains of the Day and Never Let Me Go if you havent read them.
Yeah, I think a good example of this is Judith Guest's Ordinary People. The main character is a teenaged boy who has recently gotten out of a mental hospital, and
slowly over the course of the story you learn the circumstances of what landed him there. The final piece of the puzzle clicks into place when he has a breakthrough
moment in therapy.

So, the parceling out of information to the reader is mirroring the boy's healing process -- he's only able to reveal certain bits of information when he's
psychologically able to confront them.

Nothing is kept back from the reader in order to smack us in the face with a \~SURPRISE TWIST\~. The story (in terms of the plot) would work just as well if we
knew the circumstances of the boy's trauma from the very beginning. But having the readers keep pace with the boy as he becomes more and more able to face
what happened to him brings us along with him emotionally and empathetically on his journey to healing.
> It depends.

</thread>
My mind immediately goes to The Marabou Stork Nightmares by Irvine Welsh. God damn, that book... oof.
For a book that I feel does this well you may enjoy {{Shades of Grey by Jasper Fforde}} where they refer to it as "The Something That Happened" which, imo, is a
very self aware jab at that very trope. Shades of Grey is part of a series and we are supposed to be getting the second book soon
I've been reading a lot of fantasy and I find that this happens more and more in modern fantasy. People have secrets and ancient knowledge that they just don't
want to share. It's a trope that has been over-done.

If you're going to keep knowledge from the reader or the protagonists then you need to give us a compelling reason WHY this knowledge was secret. Using
mysterious dark language is too easy, there needs to be substance to the mystery.
It feels like they are writing a movie script where the director includes flashbacks of some important event to reveal the motivations, but that only works in movies
because we are the outside observers. If you need that hook to make your book interesting, it's probably not a good story to begin with.
i feel like We Were Liars started this trend
I'm in the same boat for sure. I read one thriller-type novel that was told in first person and the main character kept saying "I think I've figured it out" or "I know what
this clue means" without explaining it and I'm like...this is needlessly vague just to keep the reader hooked. No person would think like that without actually just
thinking about the reveal.
>I absolutely love the fantasy series
>
>The Malazan Book of the Fallen
>
>, in which the author, Steven Erikson, is extremely stingy with explanatory information. Since it's a fantasy, this adds to the mystery, since we don't even know how
the world works or who inhabits it. We must piece it together and it takes a while. In fact I recommend reading the ten-book series three times to really understand
it.

As a long time Malazan fan, I concur.

It's also the ONLY series to ever take what I thought was the denouement and point of the whole thing...and twist it around on me in the LAST book and readjust
my entire view of the series. Amazing.

I'd say you get settled into the world by Memories of Ice, but that it's the re-reads that are REALLY rewarding on that front.

And it's probably the most "landed" an ending to a long fantasy series has been for me.

Have you read David Hair's Moontide Quartet yet? I found it similar to Malazan in scope and characters and complex world with tonnes of surprises. And if you've
not, the first eBook 'Mage's Blood' is currently on sale at amazon for $2.
I'm currently @ 75% of House of Chains and you've pretty much summed it up. I still get mad sometimes at the profusion of POVs, at not understanding the
warrens, at trying to remember the motivation of each character (or even remembering who a character is!)... but so far in the three books I've completed everything
has been so satisfying that I plan to stick around with Malazan a long time.
What happens before really doesn't matter to The Iliad. Any listener or reader of it is assumed to already have knowledge of Greek mythology as The Iliad is a story
that exists to tell a more flushed out story of events that happen in the mythology. There is no information the characters know that people reading the story
shouldn't already know about the events leading to the story. As for modern reader. You don't send someone to read The Iliad as their starting point into Greek
Mythology.
As someone that gave up on Malazan your post almost makes me want to try finishing it again.
Yeah, that's not how it ends. You're missing out.
Everything I've said is in the first two chapters of either book.
He's very good at writing characters in denial about themselves. It's one of his recurring tropes.
Never Let Me Go was absolutely amazing at this. Ugh such a good book!
I recently finished Klara and the Sun and adored it.
I agree they are both great (as is everything by Ishiguro) but I dont think it's what the OP is describing. In both of those books, the protagonists don't know more
than we do- in fact it's the other way around.

The OP is talking about a plot that's more like this: a protagonist has been through some life-altering event in their past. They know about it. We, the reader, do not.
We see the protagonist thinking about it, the effect it has had on them as they live their lives in the main plot post-event. In the subplot (or flashbacks) we see the
protagonist in the past living their life before this life-altering event. They are going about their day, building up to it. Narrative switches between these two (or more
plots) until the book culminates with the past protagonist experiencing THE EVENT. This is when we also learn about it.

Never Let Me Go does not follow this formula at all. Remains of the Day involves a present plot and a past plot through memory, but there isn't AN EVENT to be
revealed in the end. Plus the protagonists of both books never know as much as we know which is not what the OP is referring to since they say that everyone in
the story knows what the thing was, we just don't find out until the climax.

Another vote for Never Let Me Go. The way the information is revealed about Hailsham, etc… it’s well done IMO.
I'd recommend 1Q84 a lot more than Never Let Me Go. In 1Q84 there is a very interesting take on what the reader knows as opposed to the characters
I love Shades of Grey, but have to admit that waiting for the sequel has turned me off it a bit.
It’s been ages since I read that one, but it sort of makes sense in that one because the main character has blocked out the memory, right?
Thanks! I just bought *Mage’s Blood*.
I’ve read the main 10 twice, the ICE books, and I’m now reading the Kharkanas books. The warrens are starting to make sense!
Well, I enjoyed *The Iliad* despite my lack of expertise. Whatever the experience of Homer’s contemporaries may have been, which I’m sure was very different from
mine, there’s something to be said for picking up the story straight from Homer, piecing it together as I go along.
You might like it better the second time around. But don't punish yourself if you don't like it.
I know, I read the end but glad I didn’t sit through endless pages just wondering why she was silent, only to get *that* explanation.
Ah okay, sounds awesome though!… my wife likes to read so I’ll go see if I can find them.
I hated it with a passion
I havent read that yet but I will soon I hope!
Never Let Me Go is a lot easier to get into. 1Q84, while full of beautiful prose, drags you along through 1K pages of the same routines described over and over
again. Murakami could have cut nearly half of that book and still told the same story. It also shows up fairly often in r/menwritingwomen because some of the
scenes involving female characters are just bizarre.
I've never read any Murakami but I'll definitely add it to my list
It makes me sad that it seems Jasper Fforde had put it off for so long. I'm still waiting though, because it has been a beloved favorite of mine since I originally read
it years ago. For anyone just reading it now though, the wait will obviously be shorter. I'm trying not to be jealous of that haha
Yes from what I remember! I just remember it being soooo talked about in the online book space (and i still see it brought up on tiktok today) so I wouldn’t be
surprised if it started a publishing trend.
Hope you dig it! I liked it in the first half, but the second half is when it REALLY started to take off for me and shine.
I found that I had to take a break and come back to it. Halfway or so through the first book it was smooth sailing. That said, there is a major shift in location and
narrative about a third to halfway through that pulled me in.
Oh I have no plan to ever finish Malazan. I read through book 7 and I have no wish to continue. But your comment did make me at least consider it since it brought
up things I hadn't considered before.
HAHA proves that saying "to each her own" or whatever.
Me too! I really don't see the hype.
While I do agree that the story itself was prolonged more than it could have been, at least by 400 pages, the style of writing is what made it worth it for me. I just
love Murakami's way of describing things whether it be a room, a person's appearance, or a person's thoughts
You‘ve given me hope again!
It will have to wait a while but I’ll get to it eventually.
Wow. I hope you enjoyed some of the seven books you read!
I was thinking about how my taste in books has changed ever since I started enjoying them.

My 10-year-old self would be flabbergasted to know that, at age 26, I am voluntarily reading and *enjoying* many of my choices today. At that age I thought only
boring old geezers read Classics, and Non-Fiction was for stiff nerds with no imagination. Hell, I now occasionally pick up books on History, my most-loathed
subject as a kid.

They’d also be disappointed with how little I care for Harry Potter now. I used to make it my personality, and had “must have read Harry Potter” near the top of my
romantic partner requirements list lol. Jesus Christ.

On the other hand, I think my teenage self would be impressed. I’ve challenged myself a lot to expand outside my comfort zone and read more difficult books. I am
also much more secure & confident about reading whatever the hell I want & not caring if my Goodreads friends see me reading some “embarrassing” books.
Disappointed that I’m not reading as much as I used to tbh
"But you used to love reading... what happened? :("
My younger self would think "your parents are going to be so mad when they find out how much sex is in the books you're reading, especially the gay stuff."
I can remember that in 2nd grade I read 200+ books and got an award for it. Not strictly kids books either. I read reader's digest, national geographic - the adults
version, not the ones for kids.

In the last few years I've been lucky to manage even a book a year. This year...like 4 total? My younger self would be really disappointed in me. Heck, my current
self is disappointed in me.
Would think I got old and boring. I used to mostly read Scifi and fantasy now I mostly read classic literature. Jokes on my past self though, War and Peace ain’t
boring!
He’d probably ask why I don’t read as much and be pissed that I never finished the Bone series.
Honestly my younger selves would just be confused about the fact that I primarily use an e-reader these days and probably not able to move on past that.
I don't think my childhood self was particularly judgemental about reading habits. I think little pineapplesf would be intrigued by audiobooks, stoked about the fact I
can read on a cell phone, and disappointed I don't have a Belle ladder.
My childhood self would not be surprised. I was an Anne of Green Gables series and author reading maniac. I liked the Anne books so I had to get everything LM
Montgomery wrote. I re-read them all over and over. It took some effort to read something else that I didn't already know was so good. I'm still the same way. I latch
onto a series and author and don't want to let go. Luckily life is long, and there are a lot of great authors with great series.
My younger self would say I was falling down on the job, that as an adult I have the freedom to read in all my spare time and yet I don't.

I prefer the company of people to books, now, which I think is an improvement. Novels are art and art is lovely: but as one of my favorite novelists says, "Art will
never love you back."
12 year old me wouldn't be surprised that I still binge read some silly books. However 12 year old me would be very confused that I read most of my books on a app
on my phone.
Mine is the reverse of yours! I loved Nancy Drew books as a child and my parents bought me classics that were edited for children. I loved them! By the time I got
to high school I was reading Stephen King, Anne Rice, and mainly pop fiction.

I'm in the early 30's and had rediscovered my love of classic fiction as well as making my way through Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers. I've come full circle and
my younger self would be pleased.
I’ve often thought of this. I had/have an abusive father and my self-care (since I was basically held captive in my home) was to go to my room and read. This was in
the 70s and 80s so no internet. My mother would take me to the library often and the feeling I would get, walking into a world of limitless methods of escape, was so
exhilarating and uplifting.

It’s no surprise that I still love to read and thankfully my motivations have changed!
She would be disappointed. I used to read almost literally every second of every day, including reading while I ate all my meals. I fell asleep with a book on top of
my face most nights.

Now I'm 40 and barely find time to sit down and read a few pages of a book when I eat. I get little bursts of time where I read voraciously for a few weeks and then
go months without getting into anything I haven't already read a few dozen times...
You have a phone that does *WHAT*?!?!?!
I know how to read!?
Probably surprised. I had a few book series I read as a kid, but most of what I read was assigned reading for school and it kind of put me off reading, it was just a
struggle for me to get into a lot of the assigned reading.
I started my reading habit at 13, so probl 10 y/o me would be confused lol
Kid me would be amazed I read Lord of the Rings, the Hobbit and the Harry Potter books. All in the same year, to boot!

A kid in my elementary school was obsessed with LOTR when we were in grade five. Tried reading them, but found the books to be boring. Likewise, I was a kid
when HP was first being released, but I couldn't get into them. I read them all this year.
My 12 year old self would be so disappointed. I used to be obsessed with reading 100-best-books lists and tried (very unsuccessfully) to read The Scarlet Letter and
Moby Dick when I was 13. Now I read for enjoyment, validation and consolation. Any enrichment would be incidental, but definitely not deliberately sought!
He'd be shaking his head in disappointment. I read a book a week from around age 12 through about 32. In my defense, a kid, running a business alongside a
postmaster degree has somewhat cut into reading time. Audiobooks during commute and exercise have somewhat helped but I'm glad to finish a substantial book a
month.
My child self would wonder why I read so much less now than I did then.
“Pathetic”
How can you read this? There aren't even any pictures!
Mine is very similar to yours lol. When I was a teenager, my reading habits all consisted of books like Hatching Magic, Ender's Game, Fablehaven, and the Hunger
Games. Today I read more non-fiction than fantasy, and even plain-old fiction books are on the table now. Biographies, memoirs, and career-specific nonfiction
books are all far more interesting now than I used to think
My younger self would recognize the borderline addictive reader they see now, but would be disappointed in the 4 year gap on Goodreads… college was fun if not
enlightening.
My childhood self would wonder why I read more slowly now, why I read less, and why I almost never reread books. The books have gotten more challenging but
not hugely different, since even back then I enjoyed historical fiction and classics geared to younger readers. Because I'm busier and also live with someone, I don't
spend countless hours alone in my room reading like I used to. Back then I read every book I owned multiple times and read really quickly because I'd read them all
before. Now my pace is slower because the stuff I'm reading is more complex, plus I've just gotten to enioy chewing over words and scenes at a more leisurely rate.
It depends on what age. As a dyslexic any me before about 10 or 11 would be shocked I read for fun. Teenage and early twenties me would be surprised how little I
read about dark stuff like the Holocaust and Medieval torture. The amount of smut and pointless romance I read in my late twenties and early thirties would shock
all my past selves as it occasionally shocks my present self. I think the only thing that would shock my childhood selves about my reading now would be the
number of children's books I read as an adult, how particular I am with making sure my daughter's book collection has a good number of fun math related books
and possibly the English to Spanish books that have found their way into our board book collection. My love of science, European history and fantasy have been
consistent since I started reading at about age 10 and are now incorporated into both our picture book and board book collections. Also I agree the idea of ebooks
would be mind boggling.
my child self would look at my current book collection and be surprised there's no Dragonlance, but otherwise thrilled.

A decade or so ago I earned quite a lot (working ridiculous 70-80+ hour weeks. Don't do that) and spent quite a lot on glorious hardbacks of classics, Folios,
volumes of local history, graphic novels (Sandman, Lucifer, Fables) and award winning fantasy/sci-fi

I also had a massive 300+ book clearout maybe five years ago and replaced all the crap I was never going to read with books recommended by authors I follow on
Twitter, which greatly improved my already pretty good collection.

it's deeply unfortunate that Goodreads became a garbage service under Amazon. I'm not aware of a reliable recommendation service, but that definitely isn't it.
Younger me would be confused at the amount of gay romance i read
Since I used to get grounded for not cleaning my room because I was reading, my childhood self would say that my house is too clean and I don’t read enough
enough.
Not surprised:

* That I still read The Lord of the Rings on a regular basis.

Surprised:

* That I don't read any other fantasy, and go for classics and non-fiction instead
Awesomeness and a high five, I still read primarily the same type of stuff (sci-fi, fantasy and nonfiction about UFOs and cryptids, myths and legends) my reading
habits haven't really changed
As a kid I hated reading and never chose to read anything. I would be surprised that I’m reading at all, as an adult.
Depends on the age.

I read fan fiction

Younger than 8: “You read things without pictures?”

8- 13: “There’s stuff on the internet about our favorite tv show characters? Cool!”

14-18: “you’re reading stuff not on the ‘50 best literature books’ list, damned pleb, we’re trying to get smarter”

19-present: “you got more of this shit?”

Yeah, weird evolution of things.
Proud that I picked up reading again after a 15 year long gaming addiction.
shocked in more ways than one.

i don't read as much as i used to when i was younger, so i think my childhood self would be disappointed in that, but i also used to have an aversion towards books
that contained any sexual scenes. now i'm not just unbothered by sexual scenes, i've read my fair share of sexually explicit books and enjoyed them too.
I was a bit of a literary snob as a pre-teen/teen so who knows
TL;DR My school self would be happy that I've made as much improvement since I wasn't a reader in school but wanted to be.

My middle and high school self would say something like "well you have a way to go before you get to the place you'd like but you're definitely on a much better
track." I never read in school on my own. Throughout all school the only books I can think of reading is the first Hunger Games book and the first Harry Potter book
and both were in middle school. When I was younger I couldn't force myself to get into a book but this year alone I've read more than I've ever read in the rest of my
life!

I'm reading Dracula and LOTR: Fellowship of the Ring for the first time right now and I plan on reading Dune next month (because of the movie), start the first
Wheel of Time book immediately after that (because of the Amazon adaptation), then finish the year by finally picking up my copy of War and Peace.

(Btw, what I meant by my past self saying I "have a ways to go" is I wanna become a faster reader and still comprehend what I read. Which has happened! Just not
as good as I'd like.)
On the one hand, my past self would pat me on the back for reading outside of my comfort zone. Throughout junior high and high school, I exclusively read YA.
After realizing that some of my favorite movies/shows are based on some really great books, I incorporated some mystery, romance, and political thrillers to my
reading mix.

On the other hand my past self would slap me in the face because I don't read nearly as much as I used to. With all the reading I had to do in college for my major
(English Lit) I was largely turned off from reading for pleasure. I went from reading 300-700 page novels two to three times a week to reading a book every other
week. I'm reading a book every week now, but I don't think I'll ever make it to reading any more than that.
Devastated. I only read Reddit and journal articles now. Managed to give up on online newspapers though, which is a win.
12 year old me would look at my current bookshelf like, "Where's the fantasy?! What's all this historical fiction garbage?! You like murder mysteries now too?!"
Kid me: Did we get to build our secret library room yet?

Me: Still working on that. I don't have the moving bookcase or an additional room (small apartment right now) yet. But I do have two full bookshelves, four boxes
with the books that didn't fit and a comfy chair under a nice lamp.

Kid me: *about to cry from pure joy*
Questioning why I’m devouring YA fantasy enemies to lovers instead of adventure books like The 39 Clues
My past self would be disappointed at all the books I never got to read, but thrilled we are able to read again.
Well when I was 7, I read Homer and Iliad, and I'm planning a reread still within this year. When I was 12, I bought really nice and expensive hardcovers of those
books (well, by my scholarship for the gifted standards anyway, we had basically no money and that scholarship was my only income, which was modest). I still
love those books and I am still extremely proud of them. At the time of purchase, it was the only thing worth anything at all that I owned, besides my chess set,
which I got as a gift after winning a tournament.

When I was 14 I was obsessed with Tolstoy. I still am, and am also planning a reread of his complete collection soon, possibly very soon (like starting tomorrow or
day after soon). At one point, I was so obsessed with War and Peace I made, by hand entire family tree and story timeline, and the teacher even allowed me to
present for 2 full study hours to the entire class the book. Which, looking back, must have been tough for her, to just squeeze out 2 hours of program and
redistribute it through curriculum.

Hell, I just finished Les Miserables purely because Tolstoy reviewed it as a masterpiece (it is, I loved the book, it might just be my favorite book I have ever read).

I would say it's surprising how little my tastes have changed. I'm 33 now.
Disappointed.
She would think that I am a lazy ass
Same. I used to get through 2-3 books a week, now I'm lucky if I get through one in a month. Too much time watching screens.
Haha yes! My younger self would think I’m going straight to hell
Most people I know are too busy & don’t read at all, so I think 4/year is great!
Haha true! I think I’d have been most amazed that I could have 100+ books on such a small device.

I had been exclusively e-reading on my ipad for years until I decided to try physical again last autumn. I actually forgot I needed an external light source and tried to
swipe-scroll a few times.
Aw how sweet, you must have been a lovely kid! Audiobooks have definitely been an awesome game-changer.

 Oh man, I’ve adopted more of a minimalist mindset in terms of having physical possessions, the thought of moving homes and having to go through hundreds of
books makes my head ache. But whenever I see those ladders I get tempted again, they’re so cool!
LM Montgomery is such a good writer! I thought Anne was annoying as a kid, but now I love her whimsical charm and innocence. Montgomery is someone I want to
read more of.

I think I’ve become the opposite of you. I used to read only series & specific authors, now I read mostly stand alone save for a few favourites.
I STILL read all those books. I want to suggest you read "Before Green Gables" by Budge Wilson. It's a really, really good look into the life of Anne from birth to her
permanent childhood home.
This is a lovely, wise take. I definitely could use some improvement in my social life, been rather isolated since I left college.
Glad to hear books offered you some solace in those times. Gladder still to hear they don’t need to anymore :)
Damn, kid you was harsh! I hope you’re kinder to yourself now?
I’m really digging memoirs too, they satisfy my nosy curiosity without succumbing to gossip. I love learning about all the different ways people choose (or don’t
choose) to live their lives.
Ooh good point. I sometimes lament that I’ve gotten slower but, now that you mention it, I read more challenging books now. Good point about rereading as well.
Oh lord my smut & fluff romance phase still shocks me too. But then I laugh about it.

I love hearing about your collection for your child! I hope to consciously amass a variety of books for any future kid I have.
Holy crap, if you got rid of 300+ books, I wonder how many you kept.
Same here too. I used to breeze through books so often going to the library was an almost weekly trip for my family. And was not one of my mom’s favorite things.
My mom used to beg me to just put down the book I was reading so I could eat dinner or bathe. Tv? Why? Books served all the entertainment I wanted.

I’ve found it difficult to get though a single book at all since I graduated high school. I recently started keeping track on GoodReads though, and that’s really helped
to motivate me to complete my goal of reading at least one book per month.
Since having kids I’ve probably averaged 4-5 books a year, if I’m lucky.

Enjoy it while it lasts
I have totally sat tapping the side of a page wondering why it isn't turning
ROFL yeah I just finished a physical book yesterday but I got SO confused when the sun started setting and I couldn't see to read anymore.
I used a Kindle for 2 years while in the peace corps and when I switched back to physical books I always tried tapping on words for definitions lol
Thanks!
I have always been a voracious reader. When I deployed overseas I had a half dozen books in the bottom of my duffel bag, and came back with the entire bottom of
my foot locker full…lol. After I was injured on the job, though, reading became more than just a fun and relaxing pastime. Reading took on the role of therapy for me.
I have fairly severe nerve damage and chronic pain, that pain meds only go so far to deal with. I found, though, that getting lost in a good book goes a long way to
getting me out of my head for awhile and makes the pain ease up a lot better than watching TV or most anything else does. Has anyone else used reading as
medicine as well as enjoyment?
Had a nasty injury at 28 that destroyed my life.
Went from healthy man at the gym who ran marathons to couchbound and unable to walk.
Cost me a good career, had to give up my dog, my relationship fell apart and life in general stagnated.
Two years trapped on the couch while my mates got married and started families while climbing the career ladder destroyed my mind. I turned into a horrible and
angry man.

Reading saved me, certain books were like a torch showing me the way out the mental cave I’d found myself in. In particular I owe my life to Albert Camus ‘the
myth of sisyphus’, that book took me out a very dark place.

There are other books that helped along the way.

Reading & learning about mindfulness was like discovering a magic power.

& reading ‘man’s search for meaning’ by Viktor E frankl helped me find a new direction post injury, might not be the architect I trained as but I’m heading
somewhere.

Genuinely owe my life as it is now to books.
i just googled (with no luck)

what a good book for a 40 year old male that has never read a book before lol

true story, when I had to do book reports , i would pick a book noone read and make up the story myself and report that. lol
My second child was born with a congenital birth defect and only lived 4 weeks. Everyone in the family fell apart, my husband, our parents. I had a 4 year old who
did not understand why her brother never came home from the hospital. . I could NOT afford to fall apart because my daughter needed me. I had to be strong for
every one and all I wanted to do was curl up in a ball, in the dark, and sleep. Instead, I held my daughter and read to her. Some were her picture books, but mostly,
I read my books (sci-fi/fantasy). We got lost in the stories. And I healed. So yeah, books/reading do have healing properties.
Probably not as directly or intentionally as you're described, but man if reading doesn't help when I'm in a depressive low. It's up there with physical exercise and
meditation (and, yes, TV doesn't work the same way for me, either).
Yes, the self-help sections of bookstores just tells you how many people are interested in using books for their therapeutic value. But even beyond learning how to
deal with, say, OCD, or how to have better romantic relationships, simply reading about other people's adventures, stories, and life is almost like having a
conversation with them which itself has therapeutic aspects. Then there is the act of reading as escape, which is also useful, though I imagine that itself can
become excessive if a person reads book to escape from their life and ignores their chores or real life issues. But anyhow, in short, I think reading definitely has
those kinds of benefits.
This is my first time hearing about this. Very interesting. I hope you get better soon, friend!
 I definitely understand, bud. After I was injured I went from fairly physically active to bed-bound for 2+ years. It can just wreck so many aspects of your life. I use
reading and video gaming as an escape for awhile, thankfully I have a very understanding wife…lol.
That's kind of creative, in a way.
thanks. i have always preformed well i just had a crazy older brother that told me reading was stupid so i never did it.

i want to take it up now. i have been looking at too many screens need something different
It can be a good alternate entertainment, and if you have a public library, a free entertainment. Sorry, this got long. I was bored.

Do you like the idea of stories/novels? Some people stick to nonfiction. Biographies can be a good entry point, since you'll usually pick someone famous you're
already interested in.

If you have trouble reading more than a few pages at a time, you could try out audiobooks -- the reader will keep reading until you press stop, so less work for you.
It's easiest if you're doing something physical while listening so you don't doze off, so housework/cleaning, exercising, driving, idk whittling. I mean, you still have to
find time to read. And you really can't watch tv or scroll through the internet at the same time.

"Books" is kind of broad, so you might want to think about what topics or genres you like. You can obviously read whatever you like, but the books I see men check
out are often mysteries, thrillers, histories (especially WW2), very intricate science fiction, and maybe sports? But no one cares if you prefer romance, "cozy"
mysteries, fantasy, "literary" fiction, and whatever's the new celebrity book club pick. There's also historical fiction, and umm, Westerns. I'm sure I'm forgetting
some examples.

Here are some authors who are extremely popular, and they've written a lot (so if you like one, you'll have 50 more to try out): Clive Cussler (adventure, suspense);
James Patterson (mystery); Stuart Woods (mystery); John Sandford (mystery); Greg Iles (thrillers); Dead Koontz (thrillers). Also, if you find one author you like, you
can type "authors who write like \[author\]" and jump from there.

Here's some possible titles, off the top of my head:

1. The Girl with all the gifts -- Mike Carey (Horror --Zombies)
2. Killing Lincoln -- Bill O'Reilly (Nonfiction, O'Reilly has a "Killing" series with a different historical focus)
3. No Exit -- Taylor Adams (thriller/horror)
4. A Man Called Ove -- Fredrick Backman (Set in Sweden, kind of about everyday life and aging)

You could just pick a few of your favorite movies and then look for books that people say remind them of that. Like maybe you loved The Princess Bride, so you
decide to read the novel it was based off of. Wait, actually, I usually get annoyed when the book and movie are different, so maybe you'd read ...Stardust, by Neil
Gaiman...wait, that's also a movie. It's a good movie too. Anyway, you've got the idea.

And lastly, one thing I think really helps reading is to be okay with giving up on a book. Just because you pick up a book, read 5 pages and then put it down with no
desire to ever pick it up again doesn't mean you can't just go and give it a try with another book.
One fun fact of Trivia that I learned from Lord of the rings that it was written as a single 1000 page book but because of World War II and a shortage of paper was
split into 3 volumes thus becoming the trilogy we know today. That got me thinking about how many fantasy books i read that are book one of 3 or 5 or 10. And
sometimes I DNF them because it feels like the story is being padded out and I'm wondering if this is a problem in fantasy, if they would be better off as a single
stand alone book (not all of course).
My more cynical side wants to say $$$.
For me its a lot less intimidating to read 4 400 page books than 1 1600 page book. It feels like less commitment somehow.
1) Book bindings do not hold up well to especially thick books

2) A huge book is heavier to hold while reading. Stephen King's IT and The Stand literally made my hands and arms tired

3) A series allows the author to create a beginning & middle & end to each section of the story. If it is one long book, each crescendo will be harder to tune properly,
and will hit less hard because so much of the book is still left to read

4) Fantasy as a genre is building a new and fantastic world. Exploring those worlds requires more words than a story set in the real world, and also more than a sci-
fi novel that at least bases itself off relatively understood ideas

5) Readers love longer and longer stories, but there are the previous points making one enormously long novel tough to create, but also needing more pages to tell
it's story. Hence, more and longer series with multiple books
I think it's an impact of the worldbuilding that comes with the genre. If a person takes a lot of time building a fantasy world, they're going to end up with a lot more
story to tell than can fit in one novel.
Money, money, money, MUN NAY!
I honestly think that a lot of authors who decide to take a crack at fantasy throw everything at it except the kitchen sink. Sometimes it works, other times....not so
much. Anyways, I would think one of your goals is to create an epic with a ton of world building, a vast cast of characters, an extremely significant and complicated
threat, etc... That takes thousands of pages normally. Hence, multiple books to accomplish what you need to accomplish.
Worldbuilding
Sales. Publisher profits.
Because publishers.

If a book is popular and sells well, their view is that it's easier to sell the author's second book if it's part 2 of a series. Because the readers are already invested in
the world and the characters.

If it's a stand-alone book fantasy book? Publishers hate that, because there's no obvious buy-in to the next book the author writes. Instead, they're asking the
reader to invest in a whole new world and set of characters. Which, from the publisher's point of view, is a much bigger ask.

Readers have also been conditioned by this point to expect to be able to read more in a series. Being faced with a done-in-one is discombobulating to them.

It's a similar situation to TV where stand-alone shows have largely been junked in favour of series, and series largely have a through arc now instead of episodes
standing alone. Everything is designed to keep the consumer hooked and moving on to the next instalment. Standalones? Anathema to this.
When you become creative and imaginative, it's hard to stop
I think there are some ambitious authors out there.
It’s money. You hook someone with book one and they’re gonna want to buy the rest of the series. Not only that, but every time a new book in a series comes out,
you advertise not only the new book for people who are already invested in the series, but also it can get new readers interested in starting the series.
I run into this with Kindle Unlimited books and I believe it is for the money. They get more per book then less per page count. (I Googled an article on this before, if
someone else knows better, please correct me)
This is the correct answer. It is the exact same with mysteries. Authors want a successful series. So do their publishers and agents.

In fairness to fantasy authors, it may be hard not to want to write more about an imaginative world you’ve spent a lot of effort & time conceiving & thinking about.

Still — there are enormous financial incentives to having a successful series.
Not so much commitmentfor me , but able to walk away and read something else in between, without feeling like the book is left unread
Recently, I bought a secondhand Oliver Twist published by Grosset & Dunlap because I liked the hardcover design. I thought I scored a beautiful special edition
when I saw the written name of the presumed first owner with the date 1928. Then turning the pages, I saw the frontispiece with a photograph from The Liebler
Company cast, performing Oliver Twist in 1912. All throughout the book are charming black and white photographs of the cast from the play. This particular edition,
as the publisher explained in the following page, was published because the play was so successful and because of Charles Dicken's 100th birth anniversary.

Curiosity piqued, I tried to find the copyright page but found none. Thinking it was ripped off, I tried searching online and ended up reading the history of Grosset &
Dunlap. Turns out, they used to re-bind books, turning paperbacks into hardcovers. They also pirated and reprinted books, causing confusion when people thought
they bought first edition book but was actually reprinted or mistaking a first edition book for a reprint. D&G did print original books, with Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew
as the most notable.

While reading this, I assumed that my copy of Oliver Twist is a re-bind and tried looking for the original imprint/publisher. But apparently, Grosset & Dunlap was also
historically known for their photoplay editions, like a movie-tie in but with stills from the play or film. Very sought after by collectors. So my copy of Oliver Twist may
not be pirated or a re-bind, at least.

Grosset & Dunlap's history was a fascinating read. It also brought me new knowledge about books in general. Lately, my run-ins with pirated books are usually
illegal e-books, or cheaply printed copies when trying to buy online. I've never had an ounce of thought about \[the history of\] book piracy beyond blurred PDFs
passed around thru emails, download links found in NSFW Tumblr posts, and the badly-kept secret book groups on the internet lol

Anyways, Grosset & Dunlap are now under Penguin Group.

I think fascinating posts like this is why this sub was created. Thank you for sharing that.
The copy I own is like this one: https://imgur.com/a/9ZZoOV

I found a yellow one in another site and wondered if D&G re-bound a title in different colors.

Sources:

[https://www.bookthink.com/0170/170gad1.htm](https://www.bookthink.com/0170/170gad1.htm)

[https://sites.owu.edu/seriesofseries/grosset-dunlap/](https://sites.owu.edu/seriesofseries/grosset-dunlap/)

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photoplay\_edition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photoplay_edition)
To get a flavor of this without making a purchase, be sure and read "If On a Winter's Night a Traveler" by Italo Calvino.

Excerpt:

"I've had several complaints already. And only this morning I received a form letter from the publisher. You see? 'In the distribution of the latest works on our list a
part of the edition of the volume If on a winter's night a traveler by Italo Calvino has proved defective and must be withdrawn from circulation. Through an error of
the bindery, the printed signatures of that book became mixed with those of another new publication, the Polish novel Outside the town of Malbork by Tazio
Bazakbal. With profound apologies for the unfortunate incident, the publisher will replace the spoiled copies at the earliest possible moment, et cetera.' Now I ask
you, must a poor bookseller take the blame for the negligence of others?"
This is really interesting. Book piracy before the digital age!
Your first link is not working. Thank you for sharing the story!
 This thread is the the place for sharing any and all of your own YouTube videos, blogs, and other self-promotional-type content with the sub. Alternatively, if you
have found content that isn't yours but you want to share, this weekly post will be the perfect place for it. A new thread will be created on each Monday and stickied.

We will continue to allow certain high-quality contributors to share their wealth of knowledge, including video content, as self-posts, outside of the weekly
YouTube/Content Round-Up. However, this will be on a very limited basis and at the sole discretion of the moderator team. Posts that meet this standard will have a
thorough discussion of the recipe, maybe some commentary on what's unique or important about it, or what's tricky about it, minimal (if any) requests to view the
user's channel, subscriptions, etc. Link dropping, even if the full recipe is included in the text per Rule 2, will not meet this standard. Most other self-posts which
include user-created content will be removed and referred to the weekly post. All other [/r/Cooking](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cooking) rules still apply as well.
Hey y'all!

I'm Monika and I love beginner-friendly and no fuss meals. You can find some of them on my YouTube channel complete with full recipes and ingredients. Also, I
include vegan and vegetarian options or if the recipe already meets this standard I share my favourite combos for meat-lovers

This week I want to share my simple [roasted Brussels sprouts with sweet potato purée](https://youtu.be/lJSZ-fv7C9E) - a great vegan dinner or a side dish!
Brussels sprouts are in season and super cheap now so why not give it a shot ?

Hope you enjoy and try this out
Hi all,

I'm Kathryn and I have plant-based cooking channel! I post a new video every Sunday at 5PM EST and this week I vegan-ized a favourite from my childhood -
Bolos Levedos ( Portuguese Sweet Muffins!).


[Watch the video here!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c8IJ_O2wMZQ) And feel free to like and subscribe for a new plant-based recipe every Sunday!


Happy eating!-Kathryn
Hello!



This week, I will share my **Bibingka** recipe. Check out my video and turn on the **English Subtitle**, since the video is primarily in Tagalog/Filipino language.



**https://youtu.be/Rnck\_8RdPdM**



Thank you and **God bless!**



\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_Recipe\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**Bibingka**



Yield: 18 pieces (5 inches)



2 1/2 cups of rice flour

1 cup of white sugar

2 tablespoons of baking powder

1/2 teaspoon of iodized salt

5 large eggs

1/4 cup of melted butter

1/3 cup of fresh milk

1 1/4 cups of coconut milk

1 cup of water

70 grams of shredded quick melt cheese



Toppings

2 salted eggs

Sliced quick melt cheese

Extra melted butter



Note:

First bake 18 minutes at 200 degrees Celsius

Second bake 7 minutes at 200 degrees Celsius
Hey everyone! Today I posted a short on YouTube! It is an air fried roasted potatoes!! [https://youtu.be/FBLuYK9l\_jQ](https://youtu.be/FBLuYK9l_jQ)

I am starting with the YouTube journey and it is exciting and scary lol! Well I hope someone sees it and like it :D
Hi! I’m Bryan, a PhD-level food scientist, food industry consultant, and author of 150 Food Science Questions Answered. I’m partnering with Science Says to offer
research-backed insights on the science of taste and flavor.

I’ll be including scientific tidbits on how to improve the flavors in cooking, especially ingredients rich in umami and kokumi taste.

Join me here:

https://www.thesciencesays.com/l/150-food-science-questions-answered/60df522a-8237-4e81-b504-16569b302f76
Hi there!

This week on my channel I'm showing how I made [Black Forrest Gateau](https://youtu.be/KDcmm8wu5WU) for a friend's birthday - a chocolate sponge with cherry
filling and whipped cream - not too sweet and can be made into non-alcoholic version too (traditionally has kirsch in it). Also [Tagliatelle with Bolognese sauce]
(https://youtu.be/j-tpnwX5Tyg) - I think this one doesn't need an introduction, everyone knows spag bol. I usually prefer the sauce with tagliatelle pasta, there's more
surface for the sauce to "grab onto" and has more bite to it.

Hope you enjoy!
[Winter melon soup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E6AzDQL-AW4) is prepared with winter melon as a primary ingredient and is a part of Chinese cuisine and
the cuisine of Hong Kong. It is served often at Chinese banquets.

Winter melon soup may have a slightly sweet flavor. Some recipes may use several ingredients in addition to winter melon, which may include ham, carrot,
mushrooms and chicken. Winter melon soup may be served hot, yet has been described as having a cooling effect upon the body when consumed.

Benincasa hispida, the wax gourd, also called ash gourd, white gourd, winter gourd, tallow gourd, ash pumpkin, winter melon, Chinese preserving melon[ and (Alu)
Puhul, is a vine grown for its very large fruit, eaten as a vegetable when mature.

In Chinese cuisine, the gourds are used in stir fries or combined with pork or pork/beef bones to make winter gourd soup, often served in the scooped out gourd,
carved by scraping off the waxy coating. It is also chopped and candied as winter melon candy (dōng guā táng), commonly eaten at New Year festivals, or as filling
for Sweetheart cake (lǎopó bǐng). It has also been used as the base filling in Chinese and Taiwanese mooncakes for the Moon Festival.

If this is your first time coming to my kitchen, please hit that subscribe button so that you can be informed when new recipes come out. If you are returning, thank
you so much. Your views really help my channel keep going.

Happy Cooking,
UB
Hello I am producing videos for Yummy Food Desires and since focussing on more daily protein in my last videos I prepared food with ingredients full of protein. If u
are looking for such videos then visit my channel and send me also recipes with which we can increase protein in our meals.

https://youtu.be/Ha7FzYEL8ew
What’s going on everyone? Hope you all had a great weekend! So here is the link to my most recent video, and it’s a twofer.

First recipe is to make cinnamon raisin soda bread, and then I turn it into bread pudding.

Check it out and let me know what you think.

https://youtu.be/jXiplojGY6s
Hey guys, I'm working on a [Full of Love](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQ2UDqslUekdb6UdLji2qUQ/) YouTube channel, and I mostly post plant-based
recipes every week. This week, I shared an [Apple Crumble Recipe](https://youtu.be/0LS_q2k7n2A) \- added sugar free and really easy to make. Check it out, it's
really one of my faves

I am also touching on some topics around plant-based diet like [Iron Consumption](https://youtu.be/ovqpF-X44vg) and [Protein Intake]
(https://youtu.be/VUTZvs0hHb8) . So if you're interested, let's connect!

Please feel free to check it out and I'll be really happy to receive some feedback. Leave your channel down below, I'll be happy to have a look too!

And have a great day!
Hello! I made a detailed guide of how to do perfect bubble pita. 4k!

https://youtu.be/s08oEMg2GlQ
Try my new apple crisp recipe for your dessert this holiday season [Apple Crisp](https://youtu.be/lCeYhcN0MG4)
Hey everyone,

I am an aspiring cook and I make some cooking videos and recipe review videos. Would love for you to check these 2 out!

Ma-Po Tofu from Makan Cookbook by Elizabeth Haigh: [https://youtu.be/vnbSg09-o70](https://youtu.be/vnbSg09-o70)

How To Make A Polish Omelette: [https://youtu.be/hWEJuS3weqM](https://youtu.be/hWEJuS3weqM)

Thanks!
Hi all!

This is my first ever cooking youtube video i made with my girlfriend. We decide to make a delicious lasagna.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=\_gqzRQalMOQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_gqzRQalMOQ)

Please enjoy!
Hi every one

In this video, I show you how to make Eshkeneh which is a Persian soup, a very healthy and easy-to-cook recipe that you'd love it especially if you have it for your
breakfast.

watch it here: https://youtu.be/-8RqUMZli08
I made pizza stuffed peppers, and pizza chili today - both low calorie alternatives to the real deal.

[Low calorie pizza meal alternatives](https://youtu.be/oB40ATdGqdA)
**Cabbage Ham Tofu Stew**

[**https://youtu.be/Rm3c5Q-CWMQ**](https://youtu.be/Rm3c5Q-CWMQ) **Thank you so much!**
Hey there ya'll! I made a batch of incredible Sea Salt chocolate chunk cookies by slightly remixing the recipe from another small youtuber you probably haven't
heard of (Joshua Weissman). If ya wanna see my take on his chewy-cookie recipe, give it a watch here! [Sea Salt Chocolate Chunk Cookies]
(https://youtu.be/nuVknUT2RUc)
In the discussion on bread baking, I mentioned my blog post...

[https://positively-healthy.com/nokneadbread](https://positively-healthy.com/nokneadbread)

This is a work in progress post I've been updating for a few years now.

There's a couple other related posts on there as well about yeast starters and just other resources for no knead bread
[I Cooked My Entire Breakfast in a Souped Up Recipe's Wok | Eggs, Sausage, Hash Browns w/onions.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lbpu0ke2L7o)

I really love my Souped Up Recipe's Wok I purchased. But I noticed I only used it for cooking Asian Cuisine. Why? I decided that today I would try something new,
American Breakfast!

Over Easy eggs, maple sausage, extra crispy hash browns with wok-grilled onions and toast. One of my favorite meals.
Hollandaise sauce- https://youtu.be/w-NoX0jcBhI

A simple versatile sauce that can be used for many things! A must have in your cooking arsenal :)
5PM EDT happens when this comment is 8 hours and 15 minutes old.

You can find the live countdown here: https://countle.com/qMtB05-q9

---

I'm a bot, if you want to send feedback, please comment below or send a PM.
best of luck! I really do need an air fryer so many great things come out of it
hey, is your YouTube channel going to be revived any time? (subscribed with hopes) Looks really interesting, I really like these kinds of things
Hey! Fellow Youtuber here.

Your channel seems really great and I love the content on plant-based meals (I'm slowly transitioning to a vegan diet but it's kinda hard to find good restaurants or
go to family dinners and explain why I can't eat aunt's turkey ). Subscribed with both my accounts lol!

You have a lovely personality but perhaps in future videos we could see some more food shots?? Maybe try playing around with serving plates, toppings etc. I
imagine the apple crumble smells suuuuper good so a pretty shot of it in the sunlight or you digging with a spoon in it would make my mouth water haha (maybe I'm
just biased because I follow too many aesthetic food blogs )

Also, a tip my friend recently gave me - include your already made dish into the thumbnail. We are pretty girls but we want chefs (pros and wanna-bes like myself)
to be tempted to click on it

Keep up the good work!
And the best thing is that it is so easy to use!! Even my husband can cook with it lol
Thanks! Haven’t thought of reviving it, but you can check out my friend, Abbey the Food Scientist:

https://m.youtube.com/channel/UCsb26ITnYA28h6FebnuzcWA
Thank you!
Let me check out your channel too!
Investment pending
Thank you!
Long story but basically I had terrible kitchen anxiety. I've always loved cooking but hated cooking when other people were in the kitchen/house because I got
terrible anxiety.

Now I have my own place and I can cook whatever I want whenever I want. Cooking is so awesome I feel like I've been set free from jail. Put on a playlist, pop a
beer or a bottle of wine and just spend time in the kitchen. I'm actually not that great but I don't care. I know one day I'm going to be really fucking good cause I love
it so much.

I'm already writing meal plans, planning on what equipment I will buy, what new recipes i will try every week. Just had to share how happy I am to finally cook and
be creative with food.
This even felt good to read. Good for you!
Here's a tip for single living for people who like to cook: Don't cook elaborate meals for yourself every day. If you do, you'll burn out and find yourself cooking eggs
on toast for 6 nights in a row.

Plan two or three nice meals for every seven days, plan a few easy meals (chick pea salad, rice and chicken). Then plan one or two non-meals (crackers and
cheese with veggie platter).

That way you'll save your love of cooking. No matter how much you like something, being forced to do it every day is a backbreaker.
> I'm actually not that great but I don't care.

No one starts off great. Just keep cooking, you'll be great before you know it.
I’ve known many people who thought they couldn’t cook because parents told them they couldn’t or it’s too hard or whatever, but once on their own they discovered
they not only could cook but they liked doing it. I’m happy for you
This is awesome! Tip when buying anything for your kitchen (including plates, forks, glasses ect) look at restaurant/kitchen supply stores, great quality great prices
Oh my god I thought I was the only one. For a while I lived in a house with other people that had a shared kitchen, and I absolutely hated cooking when anyone else
was around. It's hard to explain - I consider myself a pretty good cook and definitely don't have any anxiety about actually doing the cooking, but I just never felt
comfortable when other housemates were around. I always felt like I was being judged somehow, for taking up space in the kitchen, or making a mess or food
smells or whatever. Honestly it probably wasn't even the case, but that's how I felt.

When I'm by myself I'll get in the zone, use up all the counter space, be loud, make a mess, experiment with super weird recipes, not care about smoking out the
kitchen, and generally just have a good time. It's a great experience.
I love this for you!! I recommend hitting up some thrift stores like goodwill for buying “starting out” kitchen supplies! It doesn’t need to be great, it just needs to do the
job! But even so, you can find some really nice gems at thrift stores :)
This post made me smile. I am so happy for you OP! What is your favorite thing TO cook? I absolutely LOVE it myself and look forward to it after a long day at work.
I cook for 4 other people so sometimes it is just basic stuff that is cheap and I can get on the table quickly, but other times when the kiddos aren't home and it's just
my BF and I, I get fancier.
Glad to hear you've got the chance to spread your wings!
This is awesome! I’m so happy for you. I totally understand kitchen anxiety—I have adhd and having people around distracts me terribly and I end up losing focus
and screwing things up or completely forgetting what I wanted to do. Especially when I lived at home and my mom would hover and interject constantly.

Now cooking is my “me time.” I kick my SO out and just get into it with a podcast or music, just like you said. It’s a great feeling.

I highly recommend keeping notes when dishes turn out great—I have so many off the cuff recipes that now I can’t remember what is did to create it and I wish I’d
made notes when it was fresh in my memory.
I’m so happy for you! Enjoy the adventure.
Repost this when you are ready to buy equipment and also post what kind of counter space and storage space you have. You will get a LOT of good suggestions.
This needs to be cross posted to depression page! This makes me so happy :)
This should be on r/mademesmile
What are you doing over the Weekend? “I’m fucking cooking bitch!”
Going through a similar situation. I always enjoyed cooking, but I could never do it at home cause my mother wouldn't let me. She was always yelling, complaining I
was too messy despite the fact that I always cleaned everything right after myself, etc. So I just avoided it.

Finally got my own place last year and it is so nice. See a recipe I'd like to try? Why not make it for dinner? I love it.

Funny thing is my family loves my food and my mother keeps asking me why I didn't do it back home.
Right on! This is the best thing about living alone in my opinion.
This is so exciting. Fill your fridge with all the shit you want and enjoy being relieved from sharing condiments.
This makes me so happy! Cooking is such a stress relief for me and I'm glad you're able to do it in your new place!
I'm glad you are feeling free and enjoying this new adventure! It reminds me of the freedom I felt when I spent my first month in my first apartment where I was
enjoying the room to cook, store, and eat what I wanted without roommates eating my food or other people snooping and judging my food. I loved it! I hope you
enjoy a long period of creative discovery!
Another tip - always have a backup option. You’ll get better at cooking faster IMO if you experiment a lot. But experimentation can fail spectacularly, so it’s great to
have a quick, easy meal on hand with a 100% success rate in case the first idea falls apart.

Have fun and happy cooking!!
This is me right now too, or at least the first part of your story. House of five, two families, and I almost never want to cook around anyone else because of my
imperfect cooking skills or there's a pile of dishes or I don't want someone else feeling put out because they're trying to cook too. Most of the time I slow cook so it's
out of the way and no maintenance. I can't wait to live on my own next year and try things like making dough and pasta and experimenting and failing without any
worries.
This makes me happy!
Awesome, more power to you - enjoy!
I just moved into my own place June this year, I've been cooking on my won for about 3 months now and I realised, holy fuck I love this. Its been the most enjoyable
expression of freedom in my life. I moved out early (17) but I stayed in student housing and cheap communal hostels for a long time. The fact that I decide what I'm
going to eat and actually make it happen has been soooo liberating. This sub has been a big help in finding great and affordable recipes
I love d reading this and am so happy for you.
That's awesome. I am so happy for you. I wake up Saturday morning thinking about all the things I want to cook that day and Sunday. It's my greatest pleasure.
TIme to get on youtube and spend some time learning the essentials

For starters I recommend

Babish culinary universe

or

Pro home cooks
Good for you man! Hope this raises your confidence, because cooking with people is just as rewarding as cooking for people.
You might enjoy this book
https://www.amazon.com/Outlaw-Cook-John-Thorne/dp/0865474796
My favorite post I've seen on this sub yet
>I'm actually not that great but I don't care.

Give it a few years. At some point you'll be out to eat somewhere expensive and catch yourself thinking you could have done better at home at a third the price.
I know exactly how you feel. I love cooking, but rarely cooked at home because of the same kitchen anxiety. I know no one around me cared, but I only ever bought
enough ingredients for just me, and I hated when people asked if I was cooking for the whole family.

I’ll be moving into an apartment this week, and I’m greatly looking forward to cooking more often.
I love this post. After years of being the primary cook of the household, and seeing that you're interested in gadgets, let me list off some of my favorite tools I've
bought over the years:

* Sous Vide. This thing is incredible. Totally new avenues for making amazing food that were previously unexplored. Pork tenderloin at 136^o? Isn't that unsafe. HA,
NOT WITH SOUS VIDE! Also the king of "set it and forget it." The world is your oyster, though the only thing you might not want to put in it is oysters. [I have the
Joule](https://www.chefsteps.com/joule), and I can't recommend it enough.

* Grill. Tiny apartment? Get one of those dinky $30 round charcoal pits. Charcoal burning is charcoal burning, and a metal grate is a metal grate. Do you have the
means for something better? By all means, go grab the $800 Weber 8-burner gas-charcoal combo. Just get a grill. The flavor you get from searing on the grill vs in
a pan is magnitudes better. I do almost all my sears on the grill, even in the dead of winter.

* Like 12 of those thin plastic cutting boards. Fuck having to put a big-ass cutting board in the sink 4 times every meal. Grab one of those sheets, chop up your
onion and garlic, and toss it into a plate slot in your dishwasher. These things save me minutes every cook. It adds up.

* Adjustable tea/tablespoons. Fuck having those 6-spoon rings that get stuck everywhere you put them, and fuck dirtying 6 spoons to use one. Got some super-
cheap ones from Cuisinart. Adjust to tablespoon, put in your salt, switch it to teaspoon and give it a quick shake out, then pour in your oregano. Bada-bing. More
time saved.

* A good cast iron pan, or three. Nothing is better than cast iron. Except carbon-steel, but I'm not imagining you're looking to spend $250 on a single Michelin star-
quality piece of metal. You can get a nice cast iron at Marshalls for $20.

* Instant Pot. It's a combo pressure cooker and slow cooker with a built-in saute function, which means you can sizzle up your onions and stuff right in it before you
slow or pressure cook the full meal. Lots of time and energy saved. Great for easy-but-tasty meals. You can also get one with a built-in Sous Vide function, but it
feels way too clunky to me---I'd much rather have the separate and more versatile Sous Vide stick and just get a normal Instant Pot. YMMV.

* **THICK METAL TOOLS**. Don't waste your money on garbo plastic Amazon spatulas and spoons. They're going to melt and break within a year, and they're
gonna function poorly before that anyway. Get yourself multiple shapes of spatula too, while you're at it. It's easy to overlook the fact that a fish spatula is *way*
better for flipping fish than the tiny spatula you use for burgers. Quality handheld tools of all shapes and sizes are a game changer.

* Immersion blender. Blender is super important anyway, but I've had a lot of good experiences using an immersion blender. It makes it so easy to just blend right in
the pot of soup I'm making, instead of having to take out a stand, plug it in, pour it all into a clean pitcher, blend it, pour it back into whatever, then clean all that
stuff. With the stick blender all you have to do is pop off the blade part and clean it. Very convenient and works really well.

* Air fryer. Not as important, but I went off the deep end buying random shit. I will say it absolutely comes in handy even just as an oven. Not having to preheat an
oven to 400 for one baked potato is actually really nice, and I'm not some savage that microwaves my baked potatoes.

I'll totally add more if I think of anything, but of the thousands of dollars I've spent on kitchen crap, these have been my absolute favorites. My entire extended
family, wife's side and mine, and all of our friends, know me now as the "cook." I love the feeling. It really makes me happy to see people smile while they're eating
something I made.
My parents built the house they live in when I was ~7 and the builder for some reason made the walls/floors so THIN, and my parents were strangely strict about
the weirdest things growing up, so the kitchen was "closed for the night" after dinner besides maybe being allowed to grab a cookie. My parents bought none of the
food most people buy -- chicken nuggets, frozen pizzas, etc. We only ever had cookies in the cookie jar or a bag of plain potato chips. Everything else in the house
was ingredients for them to cook, or items for school/work lunches. Using a microwave or oven at night when the kitchen is closed would be totally unheard of.

When I moved out and could go into the kitchen at 8pm and heat a Hot Pocket if I wanted, it was LIFE CHANGING. I learned to truly cook soon after, and now I
regularly cook long into the night.
That is awesome!

Check out the very readable book *Salt Fat Acid Heat*. Your library has it.
Check out the book/show "Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat" if you get a good grasp of those, the quality of your food will be much better. The basics go a longgg way.
Congrats, great to see someone enjoying it :)

And remember... more garlic
Cooking is one of the core competencies of life that many people forgo and still somehow make it to their death.

I'm a guy so I gawk at cookware like a redneck looks at harbor freight coupon books. The counter is just a workbench. Hand tools are whisks, spoons, spoonulas,
spatulas, fish turners, bowls, and more. Instead of greases and chemicals, I've got vinegars, anchovies paste, spices, and Worcestershire sauce. In the kitchen you
have hot metal, possibly fire, sharp knives, and more. Just like the shop, but cleaner, you eat stuff.

Getting my first apartment was a freeing experience. First thing I did was hit up my local restaurant supply store. Got a bunch of stuff that I'm still using a couple
decades later. I couldn't have a grill so I learned how to be dangerous with an electric oven. Braise and broil gets you pretty close! The kitchen, even in small
apartments, is your playground.

I broke the fast food ~~habit~~ addiction many years ago. Once you get good at cooking, you can hit your own "bliss point" of proper salt/spice to the point where
you won't want to eat anything but stuff you whip up. And it's way cheaper, especially over decades, and especially when going back to roots and getting into the
game early.
/r/wholesome

I am so happy for you
Can definitely recommend a crock pot for new cooks! Great way to make bean dishes and cheaper cuts of meat that turn out tender. Pretty much just throw
everything in there and in 6-8 hours have dinner ready.
It's awesome that you enjoy cooking. My advice is to learn the basics of cooking. Once you know the basics, you'll be cooking without recipes and you can take
advantage of whatever is on sale and in season. I gave each of my kids the CIA's skills cookbook ( I forgot the title) which pretty much tells how to cook anything.
All of the CIA's textbooks are available to the public. Amazon carries many of them, so they're easily accessible.
Experiment and be daring. You'll surprise yourself.
Buy a really good chefs knife. It will save you a lot of trouble. Don’t be afraid of cutting yourself with the really sharp blade. It’s easier to cut yourself with a dull knife
than it is a sharp one :-)
Congratulations on getting your own place!

Moving out of my parents was amazing for my cooking skills. I could never cook when my stay at home mother was constantly in the kitchen, and even if she
wasn't she would come to watch me cook and ask me a billion questions about my dish. I liked to be left alone when I am cooking, unless you're actually helping.

Just a couple of tips I have.

1. Get a really good sharp knife. I used to hate cutting carrots and potatoes because my arm would hurt from "pushing down" on the knife. It wasn't until I got a
really good knife that would slide through the vegetables without resistance, that I no longer mind chopping the vegetables.
2. Avoid unitasker gadgets. Things that serve 1 purpose and can be down with something you already own. You don't need a garlic press, avocado slicer, meat
claws/shredder.
3. You might enjoy using a meal kit delivery service like Blue Apron, Hello Fresh, etc for a short time. It's not exactly cheap.... but with a referral code, it's pretty
cheap for the first few weeks. This can open you up to flavors, spices, and foods that you normally wouldn't try yourself and you don't have to figure it out on your
own. I am currently using it and I like that I am eating different dishes than I would normally.
i too got opportunity to cook a simple meal for me when no one was at home. It was pleasing and tiring first experience.
What about other people in the kitchen gives you terrible anxiety? Are there other triggers too or just that specifically
Great, make me something to eat then bitch

Get yourself a nice, quality chef's knife and a sharpener and learn how to use both. Pair it with a nice big wood cutting board (or butcher block). You could even
make it yourself which would make you enjoy it even more! Happy cooking!
Amen brother. The first week of living in my own place I cooked a ribeye steak and lamb chops (separate occasions) for the first time and they were both amazing.

It really is shocking how much of a difference it makes to not have someone constantly over your shoulder asking what you’re cooking, why you’re cooking that,
telling you they don’t eat xyz or that they need their food done a certain way
I would have fun trying all sorts of new things. When I wanted something I'd just make it.
I feel you. I've been making do with a tiny apartment kitchen for the past 3 years. Just bought a house and the kitchen is easily triple the space. It's a game changer
for sure.

Enjoy your cooking journey. Challenge yourself.
I wish I could upvote you more I completely understand this feeling, I hope you cherish it because like me it might not last for too long…:/
This makes my heart so happy for you!

Can't wait to see what you post in the future as you evolve and become more comfortable in your own space!
Hey, congrats!
Nothing can make you feel better and more satisfied than good food that's good for you. It can be therapeutic as well, especially if you can overcome your kitchen
anxiety and begin cooking for others. Seeing others finding joy in your food is an incredible feeling.

Do you mind sharing what's already on your list of equipment to buy? This sub is great for recommendations on where best to spend your money, and can suggest
indispensable kitchen tools to make life easier in the kitchen.

For example, my small steamer basket for cooking vegetables is awesome. And I've discovered a love for an InstantPot that my future mother-in-law gifted me for
things like chili and soups, as well as "crockpot dips" like buffalo chicken and queso dip.

I can't stress enough how much more I started to enjoy cooking after I got a couple quality knives as well. A high-quality 3" paring knife and 6-8" chef's knife is really
all you need to kick your kitchen skills into high gear.
Here are a couple of cookbooks with lovely, straightforward recipes that have expanded my repertoire and changed my approach to cooking:

Every Grain of Rice: Simple Chinese Home Cooking https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/140880252X/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_glt_fabc_EAYFREPSX2AMASGGM6FE

One: Pot, Pan, Planet: A greener way to cook for you, your family and the planet
https://www.amazon.co.uk/dp/000817248X/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_api_glt_fabc_Q5XA02BZAKK8GNTD6DWK

Happy cooking!
Kewl beans. I hope you are able to get over the anxiety as you get more comfortable, because having even a couple friends over for simple things like some tacos
or to make pizza together is very enjoyable.
It's the best feeling ever. I moved into a new apartment complex two years ago ( first tenant ever) with a brand new and modern kitchen. I've gone completely
bananas with buying all the stuff I didn't have room for when I lived at home.

Cooking and being creative in the kitchen has been a huge help during the pandemic.
I've spent the last few months rediscovering my love of the kitchen! I spent too many years trying to cook for people with bland palates who were generally
ungrateful for anything I cooked. Now I cook all the things they didn't like or wouldn't even try.
Welcome to the wonderful world of food! Doesn't matter where you start, cooking can be incredibly cathartic, great for you (eating whole foods is great, cooking can
relieve stress), and so satisfying. Enjoy the journey
My girlfriend and I got our own place about a month ago, and since I'm the only one that cooks I feel the same way. I have the whole place to myself, and it's the
best feeling in the world. There's just something special about having a space for everything and not worrying about it moving or going missing
A lot of people tell me they like air fryers
Yesssss. Same with me, got my own place and now I can cook and bake whatever I want!
Ugh yesssss best feeling ever
yessss the feeling of cracking a beer and cooking with a podcast or whatever on in your own place is the greatest. I miss that so much (have a roommate now, t-6
months till I'm back solo)
Your cooking experience will be ever evolving. Your go to recipes will eventually evolve as well. Do not be afraid to change any recipe to your liking. There isn't a
written formula (even though a recipe is kind of like one) this doesn't mean it's set in stone. Happy cooking!!
When I first started, I went complex. I shoot for simplicity now.
I had a similar feeling several years back and it is unlike anything else. I live with my husband now but he knows well enough to get out of the kitchen when I’m
doing stuff. I’m happy for you!!
I like this post

I actually found I also enjoy cooking, but... I especially love cooking with someone helping it seems. All the cooking and cleaning gets done, and I don't worry as
much. It's quite a fun sharing activity.
i'd never really thought about it before, but the exact same thing happened to me. having my own space completely took the pressure off.

cooking has been such a joy for me during extended lockdowns, OP i'm glad you're finding the same happiness!
Holy shit this is literally me and I’m getting my own place soon for the first time. I always thought I’ve been romanticizing how life will be in my own space especially
with cooking and I’m so glad to see it’s actually real! Really happy for you and hope eat the yummiest of foods!
I have kitchen anxiety as well. The kitchen is my least favourite place in the house. Can't wait for my independence, sounds great to finally be able to cook without
everyone jumping in to judge.
Dutch oven, cast iron pan, good chef knife, kitchen aid stand mixer, roasting pan, boom…all you need*


*Mostly, slow cookers are nice to set and forget while you’re off at work. Coming home to a 6 root pot roast is kinda life sometimes
Don't let anyone make you think that cooking is some sort of rarefied skill to be bestowed via culinary education or celebrity chefs - walk into any restaurant kitchen
and you'll find chefs following tried and true recipes. Cooking is 90% following directions.
Cool :) that’s great. Cooking is my go-to switch off from the world and reset my brain. Don’t cook for compliments, make what you like and if someone else likes it
too then it’s a score for them.

The best thing for me is making something up from random stuff i have left over and finding it’s delicious.
Get a Teflon coated pan and silicon spatulas and only use those spatulas on the nonstick pan. Get a carbon steel pan (I like DeBuyer, but Darto will be my best
purchase). Then get an enameled cast iron Dutch oven (Lodge is the most affordable). I also really like my Nordicware half sheet tray. Those are the 4 items in my
kitchen that I use the most.
I have fun chopping things and pretending I'm on a cooking show. My food isn't that great but it's not terrible, and I make sure to mention that to every news anchor
interviewing me in the process.
I'm in the same boat,but I lost access to the cookware I had before  what I thought was mid-quality utensils and cookware is top of the line compared to what I'm
using now...

I used a bread knife to dice garlic and peppers yesterday for an Asian sauce, the alternative was an Ikea "chef knife" with an edge duller than a butter knife.
I learned that one real quick lol. And the clean up sucks too. Now I try to make a big dinner and have 2-3 servings in the fridge for later in the week.
Eggs with toast is amazing
I'd piggyback on that to say learn how to do a really elevated version of quick and easy stuff, too. Learn how to do a classic French omelette, serve it to yourself
with a little green salad with vinaigrette, and if you want toast, get some really nice bread. Even quick and easy stuff can be divine--no shame in it!
I try to do a instant pot meal once a week for this exact reason (not an ad, just useful for nights when you don’t want to shit.)
Also, when you do cook, make way more than you need. Especially if it freezes well. I only really cook 2-3 times a week, but eat a ton of leftovers off those meals. I
only really eat out once every week or two.
I can second this, even from me who’s crazy passionate about cooking - fancy food every day got too much and I ended up just eating the easiest pasta that came
to mind for a couple weeks straight.
My goto easy meals all involve throwing things in the oven.

Chicken thighs (45 mins), heavily spiced, with halved yellow potatoes (30 mins) and broccoli (20 mins) are my fav
This is something I have trouble with still to this day. You get so excited about cooking for a while that you make food every night for 3 nights and then on night 4
you realize you have too many leftovers and are exhausted from spending 2 hours each day in the kitchen and don't want anything to do with it.

Meanwhile if you pace yourself by adding a day or two in between each time, by the end of the week you've still spent as much time in the kitchen but you actually
look forward to it instead of dread it.
Oof, the eggs on toast hit way to close to home
God, yes.

I was enjoying making stuff every day til I just one day was like... nope. The volume of washing up each time is immense, and it made the new stuff I was doing, feel
like quite a chore.
Great attitude by OP, getting good at cooking isn't as fun if you don't screw up a few things in the beginning :)
yep. [A Relevant fav moment from Adventure time](https://c.tenor.com/qa4mO5pFBCUAAAAC/jake-the-dog-sucking-is-the-first-step-to-being-good-at-something.gif)
This. Once we are in an environment where we are free to experiment, we really get to shine.
My wife lived in a super toxic environment where her grandmother first told them that any meat whatsoever has to be practically burned to extra well done or it will
kill you and she would berate her for ever even thinking she could cook something someone would want to eat. My wife has become an amazing cook, but
goddamn did that old lady fuck up her perceptions of food.

I cook for a living now and like to think I'm pretty decent at it. It absolutely killed me inside to realize how that cruel woman created such a fear of cooking.
Experimenting with cooking is a primal, biological instinct that everybody should get to try without fear. It's art and caring for others. I know she still feels some
hesitation occasionally but she's really a wonderful cook and I love all of her food, every the stuff that doesn't come out that great. Did mistakes are so fun when you
don't have to worry about other people being assholes about it.
It took until I was 32, but my Dad FINALLY lets me make the steaks when we're all over at their place. His version of steaks was sirloins marinated in italian
dressing, cooked medium-well to well done.

They weren't TERRIBLE, but I grew up believing "restaurant quality steak" must have been either difficult, or required special meat - since it was always so
expensive, and SO DIFFERENT.

These days, I won't even order steak when I go out, because it just isn't worth it when I can make it as good or better at home.

Sometimes you just grow up with parents who don't know any better, and it takes some time to see the light :)
I've been trying to get my kids to start cooking...Lots of resistance
Seems like that’s where the anxiety comes from.
Honestly, it's thrift stores for the plates and silverware for me. Could just be me but i love having fun dishware sets with different patterns and designs. Don't get me
started on my thrift store mug collection. Nothing matches in my house (except for my partner's set of stark white plates) and i love it.

 Pans i would buy new except for cast iron.
Where do you find these stores? I always hear this tip but never know the right terminology to find them near me.
Exactly! I never wanted to step on anyone's toes. It even got to the point where if I was alone and cooking and people came home I would hurry up and finish just
so I could not be in the kitchen anymore. It was pretty crazy.
This is great to find your "style" of cooking before dishing out $$ on higher quality pans. I've discovered I like my frying pans with the sides angled a certain way.
Thrift stores went a long way towards helping me determine what sizes/what gadgets/what single use items will actually get used in my kitchen.

Turns out I really DO need a mixing bowl the size of the Grand Canyon.
You’ll find lifelong kitchen companions at garage/estate sales too! Keep an eye out for cast iron in particular!
Agreed!! If i had my way not a single piece of dishware in my kitchen would match. I have a small collection of unique thrift store mugs and i love those kitschy little
dishes that are always at the goodwill with all manner of funky designs. My partner insists on having a set of stark white plates for presentation but we have very
different cooking styles lol.
Anything with potatoes. Mashed potatoes, roasted potatoes, some fried potato disc things that are mixed with flour and egg but I forgot the name. I also really like
baking. I enjoy the aspect of "set it and forget it"
With my apron on and nothing else!
stress relief for sure! It's like a blank canvas every day and so therapeutic.
Thanks ! I always plan to keep canned soups, pancake mix, and sandwich ingredients for when I inevitably fuck something up.
I totally feel that. I'm really excited for that day to come for you!
I'm a big fan of babish so I've been storing those videos for this very moment. same with Kenji.
I hope to get there some day. I would love to cook for my family and friends.
Man i bought an air fryer for Christmas one year after my partner spent all year talking about wishing they had one and now we never use it. It's so Clunky and kind
of a pain in the ass to wash. I've gotten a lot more multipurpose use out of my instant pot with sous vide functionality than i did my air fryer. I DO wish i had a toaster
oven though. Those are godly.
Love all of this ! Thank you so much. I'm definitely going to get a grill. I enjoy it year round and I just love the routine of it. I'm so excited to buy all this stuff!
> Adjustable tea/tablespoons.

What is this witchery? I've only ever heard of the god awful ones on rings and they are a pain to use.
Will do. I definitely want to stock up on cook books. I know the internet exists but I like how they look on shelves and the old fashioned way of setting them up on
the counter to use.
always more garlic. I love it!
Thank you!
I totally forgot about the meal kits. They are spendy but really worth it for a few weeks. I loved being exposed to new flavors and ingredients and it was fun seeing
how they combined.
I'm not really sure. I think it's just a space thing. I really like to spread out and use all of the counter, move around the kitchen, clean as i go. I'm kinda like a tornado
so I think I just don't want people getting in my way and I also don't want to get in there way.
I love that idea of making it myself. Yet another thing to learn and I love to customize things.
Appreciate it! Enjoy the new kitchen space.
Thank you! I'll definitely be checking out this sub a lot more!
Well right now budget is tight and I pretty much don't have anything. But on my list is

-Cast iron

-Knife set

-Slow cooker

-Baking dishes

-Mixing bowls

-Different types of spatulas, big spoons and tongs
You need a sharpener. A little plastic hand held one does fine. A few dollars from Home Depot or Walmart.
If you know what kinds of knives your looking for thrift stores and a good sharpener will go a long way!
You can pick up a decent santoku knife from target for like 8 bucks!
Another tip if I might: sometimes it really helps to portion something out befor you turn it into a full meal. Like if you are browning mince for a bolognese sauce,
scoop a portion out BEFORE you add your tomatoes. Put it in the fridge or freezer, and use it as empanada filling, taco filling, in a pita with lettuce, etc. Prevents
you from eating bolognese three nights in a row while still adding effiency.
Clean up is the worst part especially when you have no one to help. my parents kitchen has 2 dishwashers and I way prefer cooking there. Even with multiple pots I
never end up having to hand wash anything.
Learn to clean as you go, instead of waiting until you're done cooking and eating to clean. You can also set yourself up for success by doing a lot of prep in
advance, e.g. make a chicken stock with a whole chicken and mirepoix, some peppercorns and a bay leaf. Takes all of 2 minutes of prep, 90 minutes of simmering.
Now you have a couple lbs of cooked chicken and a couple quarts of chicken stock that you can use for pretty much anything throughout the week.
Eating leftovers is alright sometimes, but if you want fresh food you can always prep something that can be cooked quickly. Whenever I have leftover rice, I can
make fried rice in 15 minutes. I always have diced onions and frozen veggies in the freezer, and eggs, soy sauce, and sesame oil. If I have some fresh meat I can
toss it in too, otherwise I always have a can of spam to make it Hawaiian.

You can also make dumplings or falafel or something similar and just freeze them. Take them out and fry them or bake them and you got fresh dinner in 10 minutes.
Related to this, some tips:

1. Make sure your kitchen is spotless *before* you start cooking. Unpack your dishwasher if you have one before you start, make sure all your dishes are out of both
the sink *AND* your drying rack. You want to be sure you waste no time either chucking things into the dishwasher or quickly handwashing something so you don't
realize halfway through you have no space.

2. Plan out your order of cooking and your utensils + mixing bowls + cutting boards *before* you start. I swear 70% of making cooking at home easier is looking
through the recipe and knowing how not to use half the kitchens pots and pans. Go in thinking "I can use this mixing bowl for A, then use it for B, then tip everything
back into it, mix it up and then chuck it in the dishwasher and have it out of the way for the rest of the night" and it takes out most of the stress. When I cook a new
recipe and it turns into a mad rush, it's nearly always because I'm running out of counter space, or I cut up the meat too early and now I need a new cutting board,
or I need to put something in the fridge and all the tupperware is dirty.


Doing these will make cooking way less stressful and frantic, and because you are giving yourself much more space to clean as you go, there's a very high chance
you'll get to the end and only have a few items to clean.
Leftovers a great! Also a lot of things freeze good too so you can make a big pot of chili or something and pull a bag out of the freezer later.

One of the biggest things that helped me to get better at cooking was getting away from cooking any random recipe I came across and cooking more using recipes
from good chefs that actually explain why you do something or why it works. J. Kenji Lopez-Alt's work is what I follow the most, but there are others too. I like Chef
John's videos on youtube, or Stella Parks for baking.
Well, yes.
> Learn how to do a classic French omelette


Eggs in general are an awesome way to get confidence and practice for cheap as well. Once you've got classic french omelettes half way down, tamagoyaki and
those loaded country omelettes are just a couple of extra techniques with different results and all 3 are quick meals that you can make when exhausted.
Unless I'm making eggs and bacon or a grilled cheese or something, I always make a full recipe. Like a whole thing of curry or a sheet pan full of roast potatoes.
Then I freeze it all in portions and reheat it. So this week, I got out some BBQ kebab and rice, a chicken curry, and two quantities of potatoes, broccoli, and salmon--
the salmon is raw, so I just have to cook that and reheat the vegetables.
Beginning? Wait, you mean I should have stopped screwing things up?
That show is a gift to humankind.
For me, it's about removing the pressure if you mess something up, beyond salvation. Plus you don't have to worry about what things people don't like.
Today we're calling old parents who don't know how to cook "Toxic" for sharing their belief system about how to cook meat, back in a time when cows and pigs
were far less innoculated against worms and other diseases.

fucking lol. how cringe.
I would suggest that if OP lives in a populated area, download the NEXTDOOR app. They ahve a marketplace and I've scored some amazing stuff on it. KitchenAid
stand mixer for $50. Cuisinart food processor for $15. Calphalon stock pot for $10. Countless metal utensils.

Obviously, milage may vary by location, but, I found it a cheap way to stock a kitchen with decent quality things.
Agree! And it can be really lovely when you have people over to use the set of plain white plates with all the lively and colorful dishes intermixed.

I guess it depends on your location. If you are in the US, a quick Google search for restaurant supply store will bring them up
Everyone needs big mixing bowls! Who even has the time for a bunch of little ones?
Definitely the cast iron! Old cast iron especially. "They don't make em like they used to" is actually very true for cast iron pans... the newer ones are much more
coarse.

I have 2 Lodge cast iron pans which I use really frequently, but they sat there for a couple years basically unused until I took some wet/dry sandpaper to them each
for an afternoon. Now after reseasoning nicely they are actually that "cast iron super non stick" everyone goes on and on about. I cook eggs in one of them every
morning
I LOVE potatoes also, in ALL forms. Try rubbing a little bit of oil on a whole potato, rubbing it in sea salt and baking it. The skin gets super crispy and the inside is
nice and fluffy!
Do you mean potato pancakes, grated potatoes, eggs, and flour? If you are, add 1/2- 1 tsp of baking soda, and salt. It makes them fluffier.
Here's one for you that'll be easy in that case. Get a bunch of red potatoes, dice them up to about 3/4 inch pieces, take some melted butter and mix in rosemary,
garlic, a little bit of salt, and whatever other seasonings you like such as paprika, maybe some onion powder, maybe some pepper. Pour the mixed butter over the
top of your potatoes and cook in a 400 degree oven until done. Usually takes at least 30 minutes but you can go as long as you feel to get them to the desired
doneness you like. I like mine a little on the crispier side.
Have you tried Dauphinoise potatoes? They are amazing.

https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/dauphinoise-potatoes

This is the recipe I first tried before altering to taste. Double cream is heavy cream. You can use a mature(sharp) cheddar in place of the Gruyere. I usually put extra
cheese for a nice crust on top. Also finely mince the garlic instead of putting in whole clove and discarding.
Marco Pierre White (guy who trained Gordon Ramsay) has some good videos on his channel too. They are aimed at home cooks rather than creating fine dining
dishes.
Wow, I am a total dipshit for not including my Instant Pot on the list. You are right, way better than the air fryer. I will note that I much prefer having a separate sous
vide. Remote controlled, more energy efficient, easier to monitor and adjust the food, can use a variety of different containers depending on the size needed. I think
it's universally better to have one separate, but if budget is tight or you simply don't use a sous vide much, it's definitely serviceable. Just my opinion.

I will say, I still get good use out of my air fryer. I probably don't clean it enough, as I pretty much just take out the pan and rack and clean that. But it makes perfect
bacon and keeps the grease confined and collectable if you want it, it's great for baking small things like potatoes, and it toasts really well so we are able to not
have a toaster oven, which is about the same size. The funny thing is that I really don't air fry with it at all lol
I guess it depends on the person, but I LOVE my air fryer. It's easily my most used appliance. I have one that is basically a toaster oven/air fryer combo. I can toast
bread in it (so I don't even need a toaster anymore), cook a bunch of chicken wings and they get SO crispy, air fry veggies, all kinds of stuff. I easily use mine every
day, but often a couple times a day.
Cast iron cookware can be found in lots of different places for cheap (or free!) if you're willing to spend the time doing it.

I found an enameled cast iron dutch oven and 14" skillet someone was just throwing out by the dumpster in my apartment complex!

The same can be said about borosilicate baking dishes, like from Pyrex and Anchor-Hocking.

Craigslist, Facebook marketplace, Goodwill and other thrift stores, and at garage sales are also good places for those types of things. You can save a lot of money
buying and acquiring secondhand if you have the patience.
when you get your cast iron head over to r/castiron for tips on caring for it and tips on using it and pics of other peoples pans. and their food.
Things like dry pasta can be roughly pre portioned in the bowl/plate you will be eating from before boiling so you don't make too much
I’d like to think I plan ahead meal wise pretty well, but you just blew my mind.
TWO dishwashers. Livin the dream right there!
i do everything myself, soup to nuts. the planning, grocery shopping, prep, cooking, cleaning the whole kitchen after i'm done, the washing dishes by hand. i don't
enjoy cooking at all.

i have a dishwasher but i'm terrified of using it despite all the youtube videos i've watched, i don't want to ruin or degrade any of my stuff. also seems like there's so
many things you CAN'T put in it.
I used to hate it. Then I realized I can put on a Netflix show on my smartphone and watch/listen to the soap operas I otherwise wouldn't watch while doing the
dishes. Not very mindful, I know, but sometimes a distraction and autopilot is more than welcome.
I'm sure you're already aware but this seemed like a good place to insert for others:

Not all pots and pans can go in the dishwasher, make sure you know what you're doing!
When you clean as you go stuff doesn’t have a chance to stick on cookware. While you may have anxiety about people being in the kitchen, this is where a helper
comes in handy and it’s not to let others enjoy your love for cooking also
Cleaning as you go was a huge difference maker for me.

Waiting for the water to boil? Clean the knife and cutting board that you don't need anymore. Waiting for that meat to brown? You've got at least 2-3 minutes to
rinse that prep bowl. Finished boiling the noodles and it's too hot to eat? Wash the pot that it was cooked in.

It all adds up and by the end, it's going to be a lot less to clean.
i make dumplings like 100+ at a time and frreze them, and i finally got a bamboo steamer basket--i am never more than 10-15 minutes away from dumplings and
that is how i want to live my life
happy cake day
Lmao damn reminded me of a story. So I was trying to make gumbo and was trying my hand at making a roux.

Fast forward to final product. Flavor was close, I mean close enough it tasted like gumbo (wouldn't have tried to boast but def would have shared it). Just...the color
was off. It wasn't dark enough. (Yeah yeah. I'm still learning.) So I have a great idea. Food coloring. Like just the tiniest amount to darken it up.

So like a chemist I get an eye dropper to try and mix up some food color gel that resembles a nice rich brown; sorta like mixing paint, I guess?

Anyways. That's how I ended up eating very very purple "gumbo" for the next few days.
> she would berate her for ever even thinking she could cook something someone would want to eat

I mean if this is her belief system yeah that's pretty toxic buddy

Are you okay?

Garage/estate sales too.
I still need the little ones! One for whatever I'm cutting, one for the compost pile, one for the stock bag...
Little ones are great for prepped ingredients
My MIL lacks the big mixing bowls and I have no idea how she cools. In fairness, she hates cooking with a burning passion so it might not have dawned on her to
make her cooking experience better with more sizable bowls because it is a joyless exercise on her part.
Yep those are the ones! I thought it had a more exotic name for some reason. I'll definitely try that tip!
I'll have to dig the poor air fryer out of the garage and try to use it again. Quick crispy weeknight potatoes are probably a good use for it. I think the trouble is we
don't eat a lot of meat so I'm having trouble with common uses like bacon or wings. What can i use the sous vide function for that isn't meat? Eggs?
> I have one that is basically a toaster oven/air fryer combo.

I don't have one, but if I did, it would be this kind.
It also means you won't stand in front of your stove waiting for water to boil while awkwardly holding cracked noodles because you used both hands to break them
and now have nowhere to set them down....
This would put an end to the how-to-load-a-dishwasher-properly discussions. We would go straight for a his and a hers.
I handwash pots, pans, knives (the actual sharp ones) and wooden utensils/chopping boards. Most other things go into the dishwasher tbh.
Honestly the only thing I don’t put in the dishwasher is cast iron.. what lists are you seeing where it’s saying basically nothing can go??
Seems nuts to me. Start putting items in you don’t cherish and you’ll feel safer. I wouldn’t put China or plastic in the dishwasher but most other things do ok
Yeah so I’ve heard but my mom has been putting all her all-clad (SS and non-stick) in the dishwashers since forever and they’re all fine. I think the potential
something gets ruined is overblown.
Ive experienced far worse in life. Its amazing to see how privileged some people are. "wah someone said mean things"
Nah you're right i was just taking the piss. I've found the tiny ones are great for whipping up some dip or dressing for one or two people when you don't want a huge
amount left over.
They are sometimes called latkes. I think?
Eggs can be really neat, sure. Ramen eggs are a great use of it. There are lots of recipes to make a perfect soft-boiled ramen egg, including miso/soy marinated
ones. Another thing to do is make little egg cups in mason jars. Stock your fridge with a few, top with tomatoes and avocado and onions in the morning and bam,
tasty 30-second breakfast every morning.

A lot of veggies also make great use of the SV:

* Beets are one of my favorites---4 hours at ~185 or so and they come out so perfectly tender from end to end. A little balsamic and brown sugar in the bag with
some salt and pepper, top with goat cheese after if you're feeling frisky.... it's to die for.

* Carrots are solid too, on the subject of roots. There are tons of ways to do these, but I like them whole with a wee bit of honey or brown sugar and a tiny pat of
butter.

* Asparagus work well too, right around 195 F. Very lightly peel them with a potato peeler first and you'll get rid of that external fibrousness.

* A lot of other veg are great, so long as they're of the "harder" variety---soft ones won't work here.

If you're feeling like getting adventurous, there are desserts, sides, kitchen utilities, coffee, and tons of other uses!

* Crème brûlée comes out amazing and takes out a lot of the guesswork. You can do this in little mason jars just like the egg bites. You can even torch each one
individually after they come out and set.

* Like cold brew coffee but don't want to wait 24-48 hours? 4 hours at 150 in the sous vide will give you all the acid-less flavor of cold brew in a fraction of the time.
I think it imparts even more coffee flavor, too.

* Cannabutter. Not sure if this is in your wheelhouse, but you can decarb your cannabis *and* infuse it with butter at a perfect temperature using your sous vide.
This helps make sure you don't destroy the THC or other cannabanoids, and reduces the risk of you fucking your product up! You end up with the best possible
product from your ingredients, and it contains a lot of the smell to boot.

* Canning. You can do lots of canned stuff, like pickles.

* Mashed potatoes. They come out fantastic. The world is your oyster, style-wise

* Molding things---I've heard of people taking their ski boots and getting them to the perfect temperature to make them pliable and mold them to their feet.

I'm sure I'm missing about 10,000 more meatless applications. It's such an awesome tool.
I'd love to do one for the big awkward things that you probably shouldn't put in the dishwasher but do any way. And one to load with plates, cups, and silverware
like a normal person.
What about wood cutting boards? Wooden utensils? Also don't want to put my pots and pans in there just to keep them nice as long as possible. What about
knives?

I'm gonna use a whole dishwasher for two plates, two forks, two knives, a couple of measuring spoons and cups?

https://www.seriouseats.com/how-to-load-a-dishwasher
I'm glad there hasn't been an issue! I imagine it varies, I've definitely ruined some nonstick pans this way.
Just because you’ve experienced worse in your life does not make her experience invalid. There’s no need to act like that.
Clearly you picked up some toxic attitudes yourself
And privileged is not a matter of not tolerating hate or negativity. Is it really necessary? Does anyone really need more criticism or hate?
That is what they are called, but often people aren't accustomed to that name, so I just call them potato pancakes. We eat latkes at Chanukah, they are a traditional
Jewish food.
ahhh yeah that's what was on the tip of my tongue
You're amazing, I'm printing this out and slapping it on my fridge!! Thank you!
Ahhh okay you’re right wood cutting boards also stay in the sink.. as for pots and pans, I use the same ones my mom has been using and dishwashing for over 15
years and they’re still all good. At the end of the day it’s all just soap and water in my opinion
If it's possible for you, consider switching to more dishwasher-friendly items. I use glass containers for meal prep, dishwasher-safe steak knives, wine glasses you
get free from the wineries so they're not even a matching set anyway. I use glass casserole dishes for baking chicken, I line all my metal pans and cookie sheets
with foil to help with clean up. I use plastic or silicon baking utensils instead of wooden spoons.

The only things I hand wash are the good knives, pots and pans, and my whisks. It's just me and my husband at home, so it takes us almost a full week to load the
dishwasher, but we have enough plates to fill that thing up and not run out. So if it's feasible for you to do any of these, it would make the switch easier.
Yeah man. Like, this woman was an evil person who sowed fear and shame into both of her granddaughters at every opportunity after their mother passed. It was
not just about cooking, it was everything. Cooking was just the topic of the thread. If I could go back in time to beat this woman for what she did to my wife and her
sister I would.
Oh, you're a mensrights loon.

>https://old.reddit.com/r/MensRights/comments/pxdsfv/examples_of_misandry/

They all think the ways in which they've been "ignored or had some woman be rude to them" was a crisis of epic proportions as well.
4th grade was a fun time.
Awesome! I'll let you know if I think of anything else. I'm trying to be more veggie myself
And neither side seems to be aware the other side exists.
When I worked in the kitchen the vendors had two different names for these things: Straight up ground chilis is called chili powder and the blend is called chili mix.
Maybe one day it will catch on everywhere else too.
You…literally just solved a problem I didn’t know I had. A couple of recipe fails make WAYYY more sense now.
To generalize, for American recipes, use the mix unless the chili is named (eg cayenne powder, chipotle chili powder) and for non-American recipes, use a pure chili
pepper powder (or paprika if you hate heat) such as cayenne. For non-Americans I'm not sure this makes any sense, but still, it's always good to read the
ingredients when you buy spices -- you just never know!
If I'm making a recipe that's supposed to be tex-mex, e.g. chili, I'll use a seasoning mix.

If the recipe calls for chili powder and *also* cumin, oregano, and other spices, I usually assume they mean ground chilies.

But it can be hard to know! And since powdered chili pepper is *very spicy*, large amounts of it can really overwhelm a dish.
I will guarantee you that any Indian, Thai, Chinese, or Middle Eastern recipe that calls for "chili powder" is not calling for the seasoning blend used to make Texas
(or Cincinnati) chili.

And if it IS a Tex-Mex recipe, I generally ignore that instruction and make my blend because I don't keep the "chili seasoning blend" in my spice rack.
i wish they would say something like Ground Hot/Medium Chile. You really need to read through the recipe to see the context of whether they mean Tex-Mex Chili
spice or not.
There's also European bay leaf vs Asian bay leaf. They do *not* substitute for each other.
Indeed, I had no idea the other side existed lol.

Well, today I learnt something else!
I've found it's a regional difference. Typically American recipes call for chili powder (blend of things) and English recipes call for chili powder (ground chiles). Also if
it calls for chilE powder it's a safe bet they mean the second.
And then there are those authors who think cayenne and chili powder are interchangeable. Urgh. Usually not in the recipe but will come out in the comments
section as "okay sure that's a fine sub." It is not a fine sub. I love cayenne but it's a different flavor entirely.
Ive not run into this issue with recipes. Can you post some examples?
To me, chili powder is the substance sold at the grocery store labeled chili powder which usually contains a few preservatives. I never check the Ingredients.
Some [prepared] Chili powder also has quite a decent dose of salt.
I bought chili powder from thrive market I think and was extremely surprised it was not just ground chilies. I now understand.
this seems weird, if a recipe wants you to add cumin and oregano why not just say add cumin and oregano? pre mixed things are always different, how can you
write a recipe around such a variable input.
Yeah, here in the UK chilli powder always refers to ground dried chillis, never to a chilli con carne spice mix as far as I’m aware.
I'm annoyed, maybe at myself, because I can't figure out what LPT means.
Oh but the difference is the blend one is chili seasoning and the spice that's just the ground chili pepper is chili powder.
i always thought it’s supposed to be “chile” powder meaning ground chile peppers, and “chili” powder meaning the mixture to make the dish chili..but a lot of people
spell it “chili” for both
To be honest, I've never had any difficulty knowing what it meant from the context. Like I know if I'm making a Tex-Mex recipe or an Indian curry, and what those
generally involve.
This is an American problem. In the rest of the world, chili powder means "powdered chili".
Wait until you learn about curry powder as in ground curry leaf and curry powder the purely British invention meant to be some sort of non standardized
amalgamation of spices used in a dish that doesn’t even exist in the cuisine it’s trying to emulate.
I'd say if it's a tex-mex recipe you can usually assume it's the spice blend, otherwise it refers to powdered chili peppers.
I have made my own chili powder blend for years. I learned about the difference by accident a few years ago, when I bought some chili powder in a rush at a Pan-
Asian grocery in a new town. I'd just moved to. The color, aroma, flavor, heat level were all "wrong" for chili powder. Was spot on for ground chilies (think cayenne
pepper) because that's exactly what it was.
I’ve always taken chili powder to mean the seasoning and the other kind to be more specific. Like I’d say chili powder for the blend and cayenne or paprika for the
specific, single chili, powders.
I always thought of it either "chili" as in red pepper or "chili" as in "spice blend used to make chili/soup/stew." Since the flavors are obviously entirely different, if you
know what the dish is supposed to taste like you can usually discern which one it's asking for. Some cook books will have a list of definitions, which can also let you
know what it means.
I would go with which ever the country origin of the recipe. (I understand that's difficult with mexican cuisine with the numerous amounts of different chili powder). I
used the common grounded red hot pepper (chili flakes) to make kimchi. spiciest kimchi ever I should've used korean chili powder.
Good recipes will name the specific type of chili powder.
One of those red flags you'll notice.
LPT: Make your own chili paste from dried chilis and just add in cumin
Where I live Chili powder is always ground dried chilies and Chili seasoning/ Taco seasoning is the tex mex stuff
https://www.bonappetit.com/story/chili-powder-vs-chile-powder
I grew some peppers. Pepper plants are so prolific. Then I dried them. Pounds, dry to few ounces. Pepper powder is so economical in the store.
>And neither side seems to be aware the other side exists.

just like some people wipe sitting down and some wipe standing up.
Yup.

If you're making (American) chili, the stew of spiced meat, they mean the blend of chilies, oregano, ground cumin, and sometimes other seasonings like salt,
depending on the brand. This seasoning mix originated as an 'all-in-one' spice base for making chili the meat stew. Other American recipes started to call for this
mix, because it's easy to purchase at any grocery store and easy to use. Think of it like a packet of 'just add beef and tomatoes' taco mix or sloppy joe mix.

The bad news is it's usually not that good, especially after it's sat in someone's spice cabinet for 3 years.

Then there's chili powder that's nothing more than dried, ground peppers, and it can come in a wide range of piquancy (spicy heat) and varieties. This is what a non-
American recipe like an Indian or Thai would use. It's usually much spicier than the blended powders, and its quality will be all over the place depending on the
manufacturer and how long it's been sitting.

The good news is you can make your own of either profile, using dried whole chilies you can get at any Latin market. My local (Mexican-family owned) farmers
market has these literally by the gallon plastic bag, for something like $1.99 for half a pound. There are many varieties, from mild and sweet to searingly hot and
smoky, and I like to blend a few to get a really broad flavor. Follow this: https://www.seriouseats.com/how-to-clean-and-prepare-dried-chilies-chili-powder-substitute

And you can add ground cumin (or again, grind your own for a fresher, more complex flavor) and oregano to get a version of the chili-powder-the-blend to make
American-style recipes.
Indian chili powder is pure rage and heat. I learned that one the really hard way ... that poor chili.
I m frm india. Chilli powder is grounded powder of red chillis which is use for colour and spice level. What is a chilli mix?
When ground chiles are meant, the variety should be specified. Like "Anaheim chili powder"...
LPT: to make either, start with some dried chiles and toast them and grind them yourself. It is another ballgame. Oxidation does the flavor of chiles no favors so
having them ground up sitting in warehouses and then shelves really undermines their flavor.
Alton Brown taught me that one is chili powder and one is Chile powder... To what extent manufacturers conform to that I couldn't tell ya!
You just kind of have to learn to recognize when they mean which.
Texas has already solved this problem.

"Chile powder" is ground chiles. "Chili powder" is the seasoning blend.

I get that other places might spell "chile" differently (chili, chilli, chillie, chilly), but all the confusion here is the result of poor Anglicization of the Spanish word. Plus,
chili powder was invented in Texas, which gives us the last word on what it is or isn't.
I've ruined enchiladas sauce because of this problem.
chili powder and powdered chilis look very similar in my spice cabinet and i have added half a handful of powdered hot chilis before i noticed. Big difference!
Chili powder is the stuff I buy at the store. Ground chilies is ground chilies.
Yes! I always try to specify chipotle powder or chili powder blend when I document recipes for this very reason
I still barely know the difference, but i have chili powder, cayenne but also chipotle chili powder
If it doubt go with powdered chilli or chilli flakes and then add your own cumin etc
Also "ground chilies" can mean almost anything, there's a wide variety.
Lol I learned this when I made butter chicken...once I figured out the difference it was an amazing dish
But they do all write the recipe about 20 paragraphs in the article after a brief history of their great grandmothers journey to find the perfect pepper.
Where does ancho chili powder fit in to this? Why can I never find it in the stores? I grew my own poblanos to dry. Hoping to get some decent ancho chili powder
out of it eventually. It is a total experiment, since I have no idea how hot/spicy they are supposed to actually be!
FWIW there are two people who are considered to have "invented" chili powder (at least the mass-produced kind) at about the same time: William Gebhardt and
DeWitt Penderey. Both^1 were a *blend* of chiles plus other seasonings such as garlic and cumin. IMO it's safe to assume that unless the chile is mentioned by
name, then the recipe is referring to a mix. Even when it adds additional cumin, garlic, etc. I assume that they're augmenting the amounts already included in the
spice mix. If there are stores around you selling various plain chiles as "chili powder", then unfortunately you'll need to look closely at your ingredients or shop
somewhere else.

^1 [Gebhardt](https://digital.utsa.edu/digital/collection/p15125coll9/id/3350/rec/10). [Penderey's](https://www.familybusinessmagazine.com/staying-hot-through-five-
generations).
As an American, far north as well, I always assumed the "chili" in Chili Powder was "chili flavor" as in, the seasoning base for the quasi stew, Chili. I knew the dish
before I knew peppers were referred to as chilis.
Can confirm.
I live in a southern state where the chili/cumin/oregano is great for Texas/Mexican chili But not for Korean or North African food.

Both types are tasty, but they are NOT interchangeable.
I'm not a big fan of spicy and I spent forever thinking chili powder was really hot. I was rather surprised when like last year I learned it was a seasoning blend
All that text in the begging of the recipe and they won’t even mention what they mean by “chili powder”
This is interesting though now that I think about it some of the things i change the recipes for make a lot of sense now. Because if you use a table spoon of the chili
powder mix, you are generally fine. If you use a table spoon of pure ground chili's, you're mouth is going to be on fire.
Ugh, this happens with peppers, too.

"Green peppers" can mean tiny spicy peppers or green bell peppers, depending on where you're from. In the Deep South, it's the spicy one. Now that I live on the
border of MO in an area with a lot of transplants, I never know which one it is.

Which is bad, since I'm allergic to the spicy ones. :(
GET THE FUCK OUT OF HERE!

...... thank you
One should be called tex-mex, the other should be called whatever pepper it actually is, not the generic "chili". Which chili? There's like 400 kinds.
Reminds me of someone who thought that "ground cinnamon" was cinnamon that came from the ground.

English can be a funny language.
what? WHICH ONE HAVE I BEEN USING!?!
That explains why all the American blogger recipes I try come out way too spicy... So much ruined food
"Chili powder" is like "curry", "togarashi", "chili oil", and a hundred other delicious concoctions for which the formula is defined entirely by the tongue of the taster.
Thank Heaven!
Took me ages to figure this out! Figured American recipes were way spicier than Australian. We call the spice mix “taco seasoning”, so I was dumping way too
much chilli into things.
I didn't know that anyone earnestly and legitimately used chili to refer to anything but the stew or the spice mix, or that chili was an accepted variant of chile.
Legitimately thought that recipe writers were just lazy.
Above all, best is to grind the chilis when needed. As soon as we grind them, We increase the surface area and speed up oxidation. Use it within a few hours.

First, lightly toast the whole chili. Since the root end, ribs, and the seeds all pack a lot of heat, each with a different flavor, use your judgment as to how much of
them to use.
Same problem with "Curry Powder" btw.
Adding my two cents as a chef. Chili powder, at least in the States, should be a seasoning mix. Ground chile is any other specific type of dried and pulverized chile.
But of course we live in a global economy and you crazy foreigners (joke) have influenced this. From my personal perspective as a mexican it’s annoying to see this
misused, but
One time I thought I was just saving a few bucks by buying a bulk jar of "chili powder" from an Indian grocery store. I made my Chili and used it like I would a
McCormicks blend (meaning a LOT). Holy balls, I learned the difference real quick.
A link posted by rushmc1 --
From Bon Appetit, Copied a portion of this excellent article: "In the BA recipe style guide, a 16-page document expertly maintained by our recipe editor Liesel Davis,
chili is said to refer to “chili con carne and the seasoning used in making it.” Chili powder contains other ingredients like oregano, paprika, pepper, cumin, garlic
powder, onion powder, and/or salt. You’ll have to read the ingredient list to see exactly what the jar contains, as the exact blend varies between brands." Get one
without salt if you want to use a blend.
https://www.bonappetit.com/story/chili-powder-vs-chile-powder
It’s going on in this thread and it’s hilarious. Some people are like “why would chilli powder refer to a blend?” And for most people that’s what chilli powder is. I think
the recipes calling for ground chiles should be more specific
Howdy.

I get where you're coming from and understand how it can be confusing. What I do to fix that is to specify in detail.

Chili powder is the mix of cayenne, turmeric, cumin, etc.

Other chili powders...

Ground ancho chili

Ground de arbol chili

Ground new mexico (red) chili

Ground new mexico (green) chili

...and personalized chili powders...

Chili powder (1 tbl. Ground cayenne, 2 tsp. Cumin, 2 tsp. Smoked Spanish paprika...)

...and so on. It's more work for me, but if the clarification simplifies the recipe and reduces confusion, so much the better. Just my 2 cents.
This only applies to the US.. Yes, chili powder refers to a blend like you are saying, but *ancho* chili powder is 100% ground ancho chiles. Chipotle chile powder is
another example. Recipes from reliable sources will specify one or the other.
I write recipes.

I am team “Chili Powder means Ground Chilis” and there’s no convincing me otherwise. I think the “Chile is ground peppers, Chili is that incredibly specific Texan
thing” take makes sense for Texans but not much for the rest of the Anglosphere.

The name of the plant in English is “chili pepper”. You take chili peppers and you ground them into a powder and get chili powder. If you used a specific blend of
Mexican chilis and seasoned it, I think that should be called “seasoned Mexican-style chili powder” (or ‘Texas style’ or whatever).
Depends on the country the recipe is from, IME. If the local grocery stores sell chili powder as seasoning, it means seasoning for that country, if it’s cayenne or
other ground chilies, it means ground chilies. The US & the UK both mean seasoning. NZ means ground chilies. Use your judgement based on the recipe’s origin
and needs.
it should be chili versus chile, one is a season blend, the other is ground chiles
This is another good reason to grind your own. As has been mentioned elsewhere in this thread, the pre-ground stuff may have been sitting around a warehouse for
eons, which can greatly diminish the flavors. Grinding whole dried peppers right after you toast them brings a brightness to the taste that would otherwise be
lacking.

As a bonus, selecting the specific chiles involved allows you to customize the heat to your individual preference. My personal blend is 45% guajillo, 45% ancho, and
10% arbol (I'll go higher on the arbol if I'm in the mood for a hotter blend). As long as you recognize that the grinder you use will be forever touched by spicy
goodness, you're good to go. I started grinding my own about 5 years ago and the difference is quite noticeable. I can't imagine going back to the mystery blends
found on supermarket shelves.

Plus, this eliminates any ambiguity in the naming of the product you are using.
Is this an American thing? I have never *ever* heard of chilli powder meaning anything other than powdered chillis…?
That's only because America has a dish called "Chili" or "Chili Con Carne", which is that bean and meat stew.

American Chili powder would be the spice mix to flavour that dish.

On the other hand, the rest of the world only knows "chi**LL**i" as in the chilli peppers.

So depending on where your recipe is from, the word chili / chilli can mean either the dish or the fruit of the pepper bush.
lmfao this can't be real

Is it real

Fuck
Just chili should be called powdered chili, while the muxture should be chili powder, imho.
It's usually chile powder if it's just ground chile peppers, chili powder if it includes cumin, paprika, oregano etc. At least it's that way in my neck 'o the woods. Big
difference if you spell it with an "e" at the end instead of an "I"
i cannot fathom why a recipe will say chili powder and be talking about some spice blend that is ambiguous af as to whats in it. if they say chili spice blend then
thats one thing, but to call that chili powder is just wrong.
The word chili pisses me off in general. I love spicy food so I look for recipes and they use different kinds of chilis- that's fine! I'll look for those types of chilis
online/grocery store what have you. But some recipes say green chili or red chili and that pisses me the fuck off! I want to use the right chili, yes I anal about that.
Now if you tell me the chili doesn't matter so be it! I can use whatever chili I want cool.

And then shopping for chilis sucks ass. I've always wanted to make my own chili oil but fuck if I can find the right chilis ever. So stupid and frustrating. you just made
my blood boil op, thanks.
This is the people who wipe their asses sitting down vs standing up all over again.
Maybe I’m old school but this is why I stay away from All Recipes, recipes posted by food bloggers, etc. and still use cookbooks. I’ve found too many recipes online
that have made me wonder whether the poster even tried the recipe before posting it.

I can borrow practically any cookbook I want from my library and there are tons of digital versions I can get straight to my iPad. On average I think recipes from a
cookbook tend to yield far better results than recipes I’ve found online.
There is a difference between chili powder and chile powder.
Well the first group is correct. The second group is using "chili seasoning."

Problem solved.
The one that always confuses me is "red pepper flakes" because I don't know if they mean some kind of dried red pepper (not spicy) or those flakes you get in a
shaker at pizza places which are spicy (and I would call those hot pepper flakes)
New Mexican here reminding you that if y'all just spelled "chile" correctly in the first place this wouldn't be an issue.
Chili vrs Chile. One is a spice blend and the other is ground peppers. At least in the USA.
Wait. It’s Chili Powder and Chili Mix. Even the clusterbomb that is McCormick knows this. Where are you buying spices from?
It pisses me off when people use chili powder to mean just pepper. It doesn't make sense to do that. Just name the specific pepper in there.
Made this mistake before. Had an enchilada recipe that said it needed 4tbsp of "chili powder". Thinking it meant chili powder not a seasoning mix I put in 2tsbp,to
be on the safe side, and it was waayy too spicy
True. I wish they would label those bottles of chili mix 'Chili Seasoning' or 'Chili Spice Powder'.
I'm with you, man, and you were brave to post this.
If they mean a chili powder blend when they say 'chili powder' and don't specify wtf they mean then it's a shite recipe
Follow up tip dehydrate and grind your own chili powder(when no one's home) the store bought stuff is usually cayenne which isn't the most flavorful imo. If you
want heat habaneros are at the store and they're fruity along with the heat, just use less. Poblano can add a lot of flavor if you have a smoker you can turn them into
ancho Chiles which are nice and smokey
I get annoyed when a recipe calls for uncommon spices that do little for the flavor. Smoked paprika isn't that much different than regular paprika.
"Chili seasoning" is the blend to make Tex-Mex chili, and it can have salt as well. Chili powder is just ground chilis with nothing else.

If ambiguous or you're using a new brand, check ingredients.

Then there are other kinds of ground dried chilis too of course.
What you're referring to sounds like it should rightly be labeled "chili seasoning" as it is a spice blend used to season chili (the dish). Whereas you buy chili powder
off the grocery store shelf and it's labeled "chili powder" and it only contains powdered chili. You can buy "chili seasoning" or "chili spice blend" at the store as well,
but it will never be called chili powder. (Because that's wrong!!!)
This seems like a US only problem. Interesting seeing the issues Americans have with cooking that other countries would never face.
It's not so surprising if these are recipes from different cultures.
My wife makes this chili with this powder stuff to make it chili you know ?
Vietnamese dont pay too much intention to recepi, we just cook with a lot of food inspiration :3
If it's spelled 'chili', with one 'L' it's usually an American recipe and it's the seasoning blend. And if it's spelt 'chilli', it's probably a British/other recipe and means
ground chillies. Thats a rule I've found to work!
> And neither side seems to be aware the other side exists.


Seems to be mostly an American thing.
And somehow you just know which one it is.
**Chile vs Chili**

Chile with an “e” at the end is the correct spelling in Spanish.


Chili with an “i” at the end is the Americanized spelling.

“Chili” should be used for 1) meat with chile soup and 2) the powdered spice blend.


“Chile/Chiles” should be used for the vegetable or single ingredient powdered spice.
My experience has been generic chili powder is the mix ground chilis include the type of chili (example, my fave is ancho chili powder).
Chili flakes are the answer ;D No option to confuse it then
seasoning blend in a recipe... you are already lost.
There's chile powder (powdered chiles), and chili powder (powder for making chili).
Why on earth would "chilli powder" mean anything other than powdered chillies... Also: Literally never heard of a chilli and spice mix/blend. We get Taco seasoning
here which is the closest I guess, otherwise almost all spices are pure not blends.
One is called 'Chili Powder', the other is called 'Chili Powder Mix'.
This used to be the case. The distinction mattered.

Somewhere along the line, people started using "chili" instead of "chile," and that apparently turned into an accepted usage, which fucked everything up.
Chili powder should be ground chillis. Chilli mix should be ground chillis of different species. Chilli seasoning is the flavour packet with other stuff.

Im coming from a New Zealand context
Paprika is technically *any* ground pepper fruit.
> Straight up ground chilis is called chili powder

It's called chile powder as it is a ground chile.

Chili powder is a mixture for making the dish chili. The spelling is the only distinction needed in the US, but once you look abroad, it gets weird & inconsistent.
Fucking tell me about it. Went to the Indian grocery to get spices. Got some chili powder and the wife used it in some beef chili. Suuuuuuper spicey and I loved it,
but it definitely wasn't the flavor profile my wife was going for.
I like “chile powder” vs. “chili seasoning”.
Yeah I didn’t realize until very recently that regular chili powder from the grocery store (like McCormick) has ingredients other than ground chiles. I assumed it was
just a blend of ground chiles. The last time I made some homemade chili I used rehydrated Hatch chiles and a can of chipoltes instead of the regular powder and it
was really good but needed more cumin added than usual. Now that I understand that I will add more cumin and oregano when I don’t use a premix powder.
My Indian cookbook was kind enough to explain the difference, thankfully. That could have been interesting.
Me too. Me too.
Same here
I make my own chilli powder/paste. It’s pretty easy and makes a huge difference.
I’m having a bit of a revelation right now as well. Those American recipes that ask for a tablespoon of chilli powder and me adding a half that and it’s still hot af.
Depends a bit on where in non-America the recipes are from, though.
I wouldn't use cayenne for any recipe that called for generic 'chili powder' regardless of the country of origin. The expected spice is much more likely to be a milder
red chili like ancho.
I think the usual distinction is powdered chili vs chili powder. The former being a single specimen of pepper that has been powdered, the latter is the blend.
As an American this makes total sense. Sadly most of the rest of the country won’t understand , unless they have ever prepared a meal completely from scratch.
This is helpful. Thank you. I also notice “chili powder” (ground hot chili) is part of ethnic dishes both Indian and Thai, in case you run into that.
Literally every chili recipe I’ve ever used calls for chili powder (the product) and cumin.
To me it makes sense to assume either that the recipe means powdered chili, or that it's not worth your time/not worth following to the letter.

"Powdered chili" is vague itself (what kind of chili?), but "chili powder" as in Tex-Mex seasoning can vary a lot -- and then some people do like to call for X/Y/Z
seasoning *plus* some spices it might already contain, at which point you're really better off mixing everything from scratch to your taste.
> since powdered chili pepper is very spicy

I mean, it depends what chili is is. New Mexico or california chili powder are very mild, chipotle is medium-hot, as is cayenne...
>If the recipe calls for chili powder and also cumin, oregano, and other spices, I usually assume they mean ground chilies.
>
>If the recipe calls for chili powder and also cumin, oregano, and other spices, I usually assume they mean ground chilies.

I don't think this is accurate. They're usually calling for chili powder blend and then to supplement it with more of the ingredients already in the blend like more
cumin, oregano, etc.

That's why you find using straight ground chilis so overwhelming.

When they mean ground chilis they'll usually clarify or give an example like "1Tbsp of ground chili powder like ancho or chipotle"
>If the recipe calls for chili powder and
>
>also
>
> cumin, oregano, and other spices, I usually assume they mean ground chilies.

That's not always gonna work, because a lot of recipes will start with chili powder (read: chili seasoning) as a base, and still add cumin or other spices, or add chile
powders like cayenne to it.
It’s totally possible to adjust the chilli in a dish to suit your preference
>But it can be hard to know! And since powdered chili pepper is
>
>very spicy
>
>, large amounts of it can really overwhelm a dish.

Which tho? The powdered chilis in 'chili powder' (with cumin oregano etc) are usually **ancho chilis**, dried poblanos, which are fairly mild. I have straight ancho
chili powder and it tastes pretty much like every commercial mix, just blander w/o the garlic and everything.

Substituting the same amount of ancho chili powder for blended chili powder wont make a dish much spicier, just less complex.

But if you grab the "ground red pepper" or "red chili powder" or whatever you can find at a regular supermarket... thats ground **cayanne peppers**, which are
about 30-50x hotter than ancho chilis.

THAT stuff is for using a quarter teaspoon at a time in a hollandaise or mac and cheese recipe. Not for adding two tablespoons of to a taco bake.

&#x200B;

Its a totally understandable mistake, especially considering the design and wording of the label, but if you try to substitute this

https://www.walmart.com/ip/McCormick-Ground-Cayenne-Red-Pepper-6-oz/412201139

for this

https://www.walmart.com/ip/Mccormick-Dark-Chili-Powder-7-5-Oz/627982906

youre gonna have a bad time. Because the second one is mostly this

https://www.walmart.com/ip/McCormick-Gourmet-Ancho-Chile-Pepper-1-62-oz/22660295

, which isnt very spicy at all.

But i think a lot of brands now tho are labeling things more accurately/prominently to avoid this specific confusion. https://www.walmart.com/ip/Great-Value-Chili-
Powder-3-oz/157643393 https://www.walmart.com/ip/Great-Value-Cayenne-Pepper-2-25-Oz/444055049
> And since powdered chili pepper is very spicy, large amounts of it can really overwhelm a dish.

the amount you put in the dish should be an indication of which one they mean
So is that cayenne powder then?
Also the amount you will use way more of the spice mixture than you would, say cayenne.
This is using your brain. Good cooking requires it.
How is your blend different, if you don't mind my asking? Even the smell of "traditional" chili seasoning turns my stomach and idk why.
Was going to say. This should have a ‘USA’ flair. This is literally not a thing in most of the world.
Oh my gosh, someone else that knows about Cincinnati chili! My parents lived in Cincinnati for a while before I was born and my mom had a version of Skyline
Chilie’s stuff. I grew up in Minnesota and every one always thought it was the strangest thing ever.
As a Texan I have never ever heard of chile powder being anything but ground chile pepper. Is this intended for people outside of Texas who want to attempt
cooking Texan food but don’t already have cumin and whatnot on hand?
Yeah, for Pakistani dishes I make in Pakistan or UK chili powder is specifically red chilli powder. Anything else needs a specific different name and if it's a Pakistani
recipe it'll usually specify what needs to go into the spice mix.
The nice thing is that normally indian dishes specify the what kind of chili powder to use.
> Cincinnati chili


And California bay leaf from our bay laurels. Much stronger.
Is it usually Cayenne in England?
Exactly. It’s not really an issue unless you just moved from one place to another or something. It’s like how coriander means different things in different regions, but
nobody in the US is using cilantro leaves if a recipe calls for coriander.
Yep major American grocery store chains almost exclusively sell the blend in anything labeled Chili Powder, so good bet that any American recipe writer will mean
that. I've only seen pure chiles in Latin markets and theyve come labeled with the specific chili used
I’ve noticed that a lot of American recipes include mixes rather than the individual herbs/spices; it feels very old fashioned to me. Although these recipes do tend to
be the bad recipes on YouTube with thick mid-west accents so they likely don’t have any fresh ingredients within 6 hours drive!!
This is the problem because cayenne is a chili pepper.
Only if you want to burn your guts out!
Why substitute when you can have both?
Here's one that's pretty clear from context it should be a seasoning blend: https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/13423/my-chili/

But here's one that's a lot less obvious (except it's called for a *lot* of chili powder): https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/18050/real-texas-chili/

Here's one that (aside from clearly *not* being "Texas chili") is a complete fuckin mystery to me which one is intended:
https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/233605/trays-spicy-texas-chili/

and if you start to think "chili powder always means the seasoning blend!" then... please enjoy this recipe: https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/24782/makhani-
chicken-indian-butter-chicken/
Life pro tip! Equivalent to helpful hint.
Here, at least (and in many recipes) they're both just chili powder.
Chile and chili are interchangeable. Chile is Spanish, chili is English or the original Aztec. They are literally the same thing.
I've made this comment before, and besides being downvoted, someone replied to me that this is apparently a New Mexico thing? Not sure I buy that, but I do draw
this distinction and I AM from New Mexico.

That all said, all the 'chili' in this thread is definitely triggering me.
Texas checking in, that distinction is typical in my experience. This entire thread is kinda baffling to me. Cayenne ain't a "chili", thats a dish. It's a chile.
I spell them the same through ignorance...I differentiate by calling one "Chili powder" and the other "Chili seasoning"
"Chile" is a South American country. "Chili" indicates a type of pepper.

"Powder" and "seasoning" are the differentiators you're searching for.
You are exactly right.
Yes! The pepper is called a chile; chili is the stew with meat and beans that you can season with chili powder (the spice mix). At least here in California pure chile
powders are always spelled with the "e" since our chiles are Latin American. That said, outside of the Americas the "i" spelling seems to be the only one (and also
means pure chile powder).
The confusion sets in when you're making a tex-mex recipe that calls for addtional oregano and cumin, but also calls for a silly amount (like, multiple tablespoons)
of chili powder.

That's either knock-your-socks-off hot... or you have no idea what else is supposed to be in that chili powder.
Chili powder is also the blend in Canada. It also impacts anyone reading an American recipe, either from an American recipe book, or from youtube or a recipe
website. Powdered chilis aren't interchangeable either, Thai, Indian, Caribbean, African or Korean recipes might all call for chili powder, but are all looking for
something different.
It's a thing here in Norway as well as I wrote [here]
(https://old.reddit.com/r/Cooking/comments/pwmw4u/lpt_some_recipe_writers_write_chili_powder_and/hek24gm/). Both the blend and the non-blend are share the
same name.
It’s not a problem here. Chili powder pretty much always means the spice blend (sort of like how coriander always means the seed here).
Fun fact: Keen's Curry Powder is an Indigenous icon in Australia these days, because it's such a staple in Aboriginal cooking.
You’re partly wrong here. I grew up in Sri Lanka where all they eat is basically curry and they use a lot of curry leaves. I literally ate curry once a day for 14 years of
my life. There is no such thing there as ground curry powder that describes ground curry leaves, ground curry leaf powder isn’t really a thing on its own either. But
I’m sure it’s a thing in other parts of the world. However, curry powder, as in the spice blend is most definitely not a pure British invention as you describe. “Curry
powders” are a cornerstone of Sri Lankan curries and are described as “curry powder” by Sri Lankans and are sold as such in stores. They however don’t have a
generic curry powder for the most part but have specific curry powders for specific dishes i.e. roasted curry powder, unroasted, black, jaffna etc..

I will agree with you that the generic “curry powder” you buy in a store in the west isn’t the best, but saying that curry powder is purely British and not a thing in curry
cultures is wrong.

I know hating on western cultures for things such as a curry powder and claiming it’s not a real thing in that cuisine is hip in this sub, but it’s not that simple and it’s
naive to thing it is. Curry powder is very real and authentic thing in at least some cultures where curry is eaten on the daily.
wait what is a curry leaf
Copied a portion of this excellent article: "In the BA recipe style guide, a 16-page document expertly maintained by our recipe editor Liesel Davis, chili is said to
refer to “chili con carne and the seasoning used in making it.” Chili powder contains other ingredients like oregano, paprika, pepper, cumin, garlic powder, onion
powder, and/or salt. You’ll have to read the ingredient list to see exactly what the jar contains, as the exact blend varies between brands." Get one without salt if
you want to use a blend.
Based on this thread this appears to only be true in some parts of the US southwest
I still ate mine ...
I've got some dried chilis from my garden. Seems like you'd need a big batch to make it worthwhile though. How many chili peppers will you toast at once?
The best combo I've found for this, by the way, is ancho, guajillo,
, and pasilla. Like you said, seeded, stemmed, and toasted in a dry pan then blitzed in a spice grinder (single-purpose coffee grinder). The best chili pepper you'll
have and it makes a bomb-ass base for chili etc.




It won't be very spicy and they should all be available in the Mexican section of your local grocery.
Y'all should've picked a better name then! Or even not named a whole meal after one minor ingredient...
> I think the recipes calling for ground chiles should be more specific

I'm imagining some poor Indian transcribing grandma's tandoori recipe and not even knowing that there's a dish with the same name half a world away
I just bought some ground hatch green chili this last week and was so disappointed to find it had a bunch of fillers mixed in. I can mix things just fine by myself!
When I get a specialized seasoning like that I want it pure so I can control how it's used best.
I am 100% on board with this!

Now can we get the other recipe writers to follow it too?
As far as southwest / tex-mex recipes go, they already do this. I've never seen a recipe call for unspecified powdered chiles. Each chile has vastly different flavor
profiles, and it will specify green/red (implied new mexico), cayenne, ancho, or chipotle, etc.
I don't live in the US.
I assume it was an accident, but by typing "ancho chili" and "chipotle chile", you perfectly highlighted the confusion.

"Chile" definitely means the peppers themselves. While "chili" seems entirely dependent on how your region spells "chile".
I love ancho powdered.
Even if you write recipes and don’t agree with the terminology, I still think you should follow what the thing you’re describing is called in the store or you’re just
adding to the confusing. No matter what you want it to mean in the US, it doesn’t mean that and isn’t sold as such.
While logically you are almost certainly correct you are also contributing to the ambiguity (and if you read this thread, you will find loads of people insisting nobody
sells ground chilis as "chili powder.")
But since only a small tiny tiny fraction of English speakers call the fruit "chile", that doesn't really universally make much sense.
If you go to Sainsbury's right now and buy "[Hot Chilli Powder](https://www.sainsburys.co.uk/gol-ui/product/sainsburys-hot-chilli-powder-44g)", it's going to be a mix.
Or if you go to Tesco and buy [Schwartz brand chilli powder](https://www.tesco.com/groceries/en-GB/products/257504644) it's gonna be a (different) mix. Or if you
go to [Waitrose](https://www.waitrose.com/ecom/products/cooks-ingredients-hot-chilli-powder/019490-9421-9422)...

In fact, at least a cursory search doesn't reveal any single product sold as "Chilli powder" that isn't a spice mix.
It seems to be. Be careful following American chili recipes
Hold the beans! (depending on where you’re from)
I'd like to see "powdered chili peppers" and "chili seasoning" to eliminate all ambiguity.

Looking at a bottle in my cabinet (club house brand) it's labeled clearly as "chili powder" and also "contains oregano". Very frustrating to know what a recipe is
actually calling for!
Powdered chili sounds like chili (https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/71Tda1X4uFL._AA1500_.jpg) that has been freeze dried and then ground into
a powder.
[The spelling is ambiguous.](https://www.bulkbarn.ca/en/products/all/chili-powder-ancho)

When a person writes "chili powder" in their recipe, you honestly can't rely on the spelling to be a guide. I see enough of them spell the measurement "TSBP" to be
at all confident in their spelling.

And maybe that means "find a new recipe" but this happens to be the one my wife bought all the ingredients for...
right? If you're going to use a "chili spice blend", please tell me which one!
If chili powder is just ground dried chilis, what kind and how hot should it be? They vary so wildly, you might as well just replace it with paprika and as much
cayenne as you want for heat.
Because it’s sold as such in the US. Do you want the recipe to describe something that’s not actually sold by that name in store?
This comment thread is a cross between "how can you be this stupid, everyone knows that!" and "holy shit, that's why my tacos were awful."
I would rather pay $70 for America's Test Kitchen, Cooks Illustrated, and Cooks Country than mess with recipe blogs and All Recipes anymore. You waste time,
money, and effort on crummy recipes so many times before you get sick of it, lol. Plus you avoid all the ads and pop ups and "sign up for my mailing list" and so on
too.
I have definitely come across cookbooks with this problem. Even my go-to cookbook chili recipe calls for an unspecified "chili powder" and is part of the reason I
first discovered this ambiguity!
Based on this thread, that appears to only be true in parts of the American southwest.

"Chile" is purely a Spanish word or a country here, and is never used to describe food in English.

Not even all of the American southwest agrees with you, either. I'm pretty sure the Red Hot Chili Peppers are from California.
The second one. You can buy them in the spice aisle of any grocery. It will literally say “Red Pepper Flakes” on the label.
This is another regional one, American recipes mean the typical super market "crushed red pepper" or "red pepper flakes", which are (as the other commentors) a
blend of spicy peppers, dried and "crushed" into flaky pieces.
I sent my parents a recipe for white bean kale soup and they liked it, but my mom said it was too spicy for her. She had to eat it with sour cream just to tolerate it. I
couldn't even figure out what was spicy in it, so I looked at the recipe again.. it called for 1/2 tsp red pepper flakes. I wonder what kind of red pepper flakes they're
using. It's whatever is sold on the supermarket spice aisle.. I can't imagine it being very hot
In the US, at least, red pepper flakes are made from cayenne pepper.
Many chiles are red so the color doesn't indicate heat level. Red bell pepper is 0 on the Scoville scale. Red Carolina Reapers can get over 2 million Scoville heat
units and Trinidad scorpions are 1.2 million or more.
Can confirm this isn't the case everywhere -- here's an [Indian blogger](https://www.thasneen.com/cooking/difference-between-chili-powder-kashmiri-chili-powder-
cayenne-and-paprika/) who doesn't even seem to know about the American kind of chili powder.
There are links to both GV and Club House chili powders in this thread. I have a jar of McCormick chili powder spice mix too.
My guess is you're from the USA. Sadly for us, in other parts of the world, we don't have the wealth of different types of fresh, dried, and smoked peppers as you
do. So from where I'm from, chilli powder only ever means powdered hot chilli peppers. I read so many recipes that call for all sorts of different peppers that are
entirely inaccessible :(
Usually it's because the pepper they use is [chili.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chili_pepper)
What?! No, this is a hill I will die on. Paprika is a worthless spice, but smoked paprika is heaven.
Depends where you are, and how you spell "chile".

"Chile powder" is absolutely 100% ground chiles, no matter where you are.

"Chili powder" as sold in the US, is a blend of chiles, cumin, garlic, onion, maybe some paprika and other spices, and it doesn't really work to dismiss that by just
saying well that's "chili seasoning".
>Chili powder is just ground chilis with nothing else.

[It would certainly be nice if that were the case!](https://www.clubhouseforchefs.ca/en-ca/products/club-house/chili-powder600-gr)

to respond to your edit:

> If ambiguous or you're using a new brand, check ingredients.

That really doesn't help you with making the *recipe*.
I wish! I have a bottle sitting on my counter that doesn't follow this rule though. (It's [this one.](https://www.clubhouseforchefs.ca/en-ca/products/club-house/chili-
powder600-gr))
As a European who has been using ground chiles in a recipe, I'm realising I've probably messed up a lot of American recipes.
It's definitely not US-only. The same applies to at least UK, Finland, Norway...
It's not US only, but my market's pretty US-influenced.

Do you eat chili (the tomato-based meat and sometimes bean stew) where you're from?
No, British people confuse them a lot too. If you buy "Chilli powder" in a British supermarket, it's likely to be a spice mix and not pure ground chilli pepper. So it's not
always applicable.
That makes sense in the small small tiny corner of the world where the fruit is called "chile".
Here, taco seasoning is sweeter than chili powder, which is punchier, hotter, and smokier. You can get both and though they are similar they're not (quite) the same
Too many people had misinterpreted "ground chiles" to mean "ground Chileans." There was an international incident involving a wood chipper, and everyone just
decided to spell it as "chili peppers" from there on.
The classic "mix" used in my family is "Mexene Chili Powder *Seasoning*." And you do see that distinction in the kind of recipes you find on the side of a box of
velveeta or something.
It has always been 'chili'. Chile is a country, not a pepper or dish. The name of the dish is short for 'chili con carne', as in 'chili peppers with meat'.
I have ancho chilE powder and red chilE powder, which are ground up chiles.

Chili powder is the spice mix used to flavor the beef stew known as 'chili'.

Chili is not a vegetable, chile is the vegetable.
Here in Canada, Chilli Powder is the mix for making chilli. If a recipe calls for straight chilis, then it will either ask for red pepper flakes, cayenne powder, or
occasionally hot paprika. There is no straight up "ground chili" powder other than cayenne here that I've seen.
Im american and i agree with this.

tho we tend to call the seasoning blend “taco seasoning” as we typically find it in packets included in “taco kits” which are just a box with tortillas, seasoning blend,
and sauce.
Isn't Chile a country?
Your downvotes kill me. You are correct.
Yeah - honestly I don't really care how it's spelled or what it's called, as long as we aren't calling completely different things by the same name.
I didn’t know until this moment that the McCormick chili powder isn’t just ground chiles.
Sooo many people miss out of the importance of cumin in chili
I used to use Williams brand chili seasoning packets, then switched to using my own concoction of bottled spices. My chili was always good and friends, family, and
neighbors kept encouraging me to enter chili contests. While I did really like my own chili, I could tell it was inconsistent and just chalked it up to different brands
having different sources and qualities for their spices. Then I received a large bag of dried Hatch chilis as a gift and made my own seasoning, which was when I
finally realized the inconsistencies in my batches of chili was indeed based on brand of seasoning because even the bottles labeled "chili powder" were chock full of
other spices when I had always assumed it was pure ground chilis and "chili seasoning" was the mix.

Now I always start with dried chilis.
Which one? Like it?
The world is made up of two countries, America and not America.
Oh. Indian or Thai recipes, for example, usually mean much spicier chili’s than cayenne. For less spicy chili, Indian recipes say “Kashmiri chili”, which is less spicy
than cayenne, but way spicier than ancho or ancho blends. And medium or hot chili powders in these recipes are hotter than cayenne variants, usually. So using
cayenne is actually the right spice level, all things equal, for Indian or Thai food, for example
At least in the Asian and African contexts (and in my experience), chili powder means ground chilis. South and Central Americans tend to be very specific of the
chili varietal being that they have the greatest diversity. So it feels like they always specify which chili. It’s the US that seems to get caught in the middle, with “chili
powder” and then the varietal chili powders. For example, I’ve never heard anyone say “powdered cayenne”. That said, I’d love to learn if I’m over generalizing
For some of those recipes they'll specify the chili, e.g. "kashmiri chili powder" in Indian cooking, which helps narrow it down a great deal
This is a pet peeves of mine that I come across a lot when when I'm doing Indian food. The recipe will call for something like Garam Masala, which is a blend of
spices, and then also call for more of all or most of the individual spices that are already in Garam Masala.

I normally only kind of skim the recipes anyway so I just add spices to taste, but it seems like kind of a dick move against less-savvy cooks who go out and buy
Garam Masala when they see it in the recipe when they may already have all or most of the spices on-hand.

The pessimist in me thinks the recipe writers are getting kickbacks from the spice companies to get people to buy pre-blended spices they don't need. More likely
they're just amateurs with blogs who don't really understand their ingredients, or they're just lazy and used regular Garam Masala as a starting point and adjusted
the seasoning from there and don't feel like reverse-engineering what they actually used.
ancho chili peppers (dried poblano) are like slightly spicy raisins

chili powder without other spices is typically very mild ancho peppers
Don't trust New Mexico powder to be mild. You can get the heat level anywhere from "did I put chile powder in here?" to "I've made a huge mistake". Depends on
the year and amount of water the field got, less water is hotter.

If it says "lumbre" on there beware.
I bought Korean ground chili in my Asian store and I think my kids might inherit it. One teaspoon in a dish for 4 people will make it hotter than 95% of people in my
country can handle.

My GF and I had to literally throw out the first dish we made with it and order take out, it was unedible.
So true. The heat (and color) of chili powders varies greatly. I make chili without a recipe and had always used very basic chili powder from the mainstream grocery
store. One day, I made chili the same way I always had but used my husband's chili powder from Patel Brothers. Wow, that was different and almost too spicy for
anyone.
Unless you are like my Midwestern parents who think anything hotter than other than salt and pepper is spicy. I have no idea how my brothers and I ended up
loving spicy food.
also don't buy "chili powder" from the Indian market and expect it to taste like chili
I definitely agree, all the instances that I use it call for both.
Exactly. I honestly find the above to be bad advice.
Years and years ago, when my kids were really young and wouldn't eat a dish with any piquancy at all, I'd make chili-the-meat-stew using only about 1/3rd of the
chili-powder-the-spice-blend-with-oregano-and-cumin the recipe called for, then add ground cumin and oregano to make an extra-mild chili. Then I figured out you
can do much better starting with dried chilies, fresh oregano, and cumin, and you can adjust the proportions for as mild or hot as you want.
I think that as spicy food has started to become more popular there's been a demand from home cooks. Shows like Hot Ones and social media trends like the "One
chip challenge" are getting more people interested in spicy food. There's definitely a lot more products out there now than 10 years ago. There's all kinds of spicy
chips and snack foods, and local grocery stores might have a dozen or more different hot sauces where they used to have maybe 2 or 3.
Maybe! Or it's some Indian-market generic "chili powder" bag.

In other words -- time to start growing and making my own.
I’m not positive, but I think OP means they use the same spices as in seasoning packets, but combine them at the time of use from individual containers instead of
buying the packet. I do this myself. I don’t leave any seasonings out, but you could experiment by omitting a spice(s) to find which one bothers you.
If you're generally OK with onion, garlic and spice(heat) it's likely the cumin. By far the most recognizable common component ( aroma and flavor) otherwise.
When I make chili, I roast guajillo and ancho chilies then steep them in some broth, I add a bunch of crushed garlic and chopped onion, black pepper, a little
cinnamon, a tinny bit of clove (it is easy to use too much, so generally just one or two sticks) and some cumin. When the chilies get soft I put that all in a blender
and puree that. I guess oregano too, though I often forget that. I've been wanting to get some Mexican oregano because I am told it's a totally different plant, but I
keep forgetting when I'm at the market.

My point is, the "chili powder" is kind of crap, it's flavorless except for the bad flavors. To me it smells like crappy cafeteria chili. Dried chilies have such a rich flavor
in comparison. It's really like night and day. And oh my God they are cheap at the Mexican grocery store.
Cumin is the primary spice that gives that Tex mex flavour so it’s probably that.
Cumin is disgusting, that’s why. There I said it. Fight me /r/cooking
honestly the cheap chili powders are just.. meh. [Penzey's Chili 3000](https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/chili-3000/c-24/p-73/pd-s) is a better quality version
of those.

[Arizona Dreaming](https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/arizona-dreaming-seasoning/c-24/p-295/pd-s) is my favorite southwestern tex-mex chili seasoning
though. It has less emphasis on the cumin (which is probably what you find overpowering) and some deeper flavors like chipotle and cocoa. You can use it in chili..
or to season some eggs... or pretty much anything.
It is a thing here in Norway. Chili powder can be both pure hot chili, or a spice blend of mild chili mixed with cumin, salt ++.

Examples:

https://meny.no/varer/middagstilbehor/krydder/chilipulver/chili-powder-7045010003040
https://www.santamariaworld.com/no/produkter/chilipulver-/

That being said, if you're advanced enough to cook Indian, Thai, Chinese or Middle Eastern food then you won't have the latter type in your kitchen, it's a product
more suited for those with traditional taste where exotic food is tex-mex and instant ramen.
I've lived in the USA, Mexico, and the UK and chili mix/chili powder are labeled interchangeably in all of these places.
Every jar of chili powder I've ever bought here in Ireland has been a mix of spices.
It is useful for those outside of the USA who want to make american chilli dish, but only familiar with "chilli" spice that is 100% hot pepper instead the tex-mex mix.
The spelling is key but easy to overlook if you don’t know. Chili powder is a blend of spices, Chile powder is not.
As a fellow Texan, I can say that, yes, that is what this is.
Jarred "Chilli powder" in the UK is actually usually the blend; it's sold as either "mild" or "hot" - hot includes some cayenne, but is still made primarily of milder
peppers.

Supermarkets also sell pouches of Asian chilli powder, which is just ground chilli peppers. Not Cayenne usually, but of a similar heat level. You can also find ground
Kashmiri chillies being sold as "chilli powder" in the same type of packaging.
At least where I shop, you can get ground cayenne as well as generic "ground chilli" which tends to be more mild.
That attitude is really prevalent. I think it's a symptom of food deserts (as you described) mixed with a general lack of cooking skill.
An example is "Italian seasoning".
Right?! Terribly confusing if you're even slightly new to using these spices in cooking.
truth.
Nashville Hot Chicken!

“Which hot seasoning?”

“…Yes”
I feel that! Most of my recipes do, but I have no regard for my GI tract.
That third recipe lists chili powder twice, in 2 different amounts. The fact that the author doesn't even try to differentiate between the two is fuckin hilarious
I haven't run into this issue either.

I also learned long ago that allrecepes is hot garbage, so that might be it.
These recipes also highlight one of my biggest pet peeves on this, although many clearly intend to use the blend they still call for additional portions of spices
already present in the blend!
I agree with r/partylikeabyzantine - allrecipes.com is a garbage website.

With that said, all 4 if those that you listed call for plain old chili powder, not a blend.
Not where I live, which is decidedly not the American Southwest (or Mexico or Spain).
Having a different spelling in two different languages doesn't make them interchangeable. Languages are not fungible.
Well I can tell you we don't say "chile" in UK or Australia.
I grew up in Las Cruces. It's chile with an e. Otherwise you're talking about red chili. And that's a whole other thing.

As far as chili powders I buy a lot of chili powders that have various heats because they're actual ground chilies but different ones from Hatch New Mexico. It's not
cayenne but it surely not poblano either. Lots of different heat/flavor profiles.

I also buy some specialty mixed chili powders out of Texas. I use those for the chili that I make at home. Using four or five different powders makes for some
amazing chilis.
Idk, it's a thing in Colorado as well at the very least, although a lot of transplants here probably use it differently so ​♀️
“chili” in Spanish is spelled “chile”
In majority of US, it's spelled "chili". In mostly southern or southwestern parts of the US, it's spelled "chile". In other countries, it's usually "chilli".
If it's a Tex-Mex recipe calling for tablespoons of chili powder, it is calling for the spice blend.

For example, one of my favorite Tex-Mex enchilada recipes from Robb Walsh calls for chili powder in the sauce, but also oregano. I simply add chili powder and
also more oregano.
You're both wrong! It's a problem everywhere because the internet means we're all sharing recipes.
Trying to write this for a third time that isn't rambling or reductive, since my entire issue with the word 'curry' is that it is reductive, and an oversimplification. First, of
course the dishes and spices you're referring to are authentic, a real part of that culture. But the application of the word 'curry' to them cannot be without British
influence, because the word literally originates from them thinking that something seasoned with a curry leaf (or kari, before their butchering of the romanization)
was meaning the type of dish, rather than how that particular dish was seasoned.

Curry, as it is used in the English language(ignoring, for now, the generic western 'curry' we started by touching on), literally just means 'stewed dish, but not with
Eurocentric spices.' That's kind of useless, and honestly really demeaning to a lot of cultures. Literally anything that isn't from a European country that has a
seasoned gravy is translated as curry. It's a bit like if when the first Chinese settlers came over we grasped that a dish they made in the wok was seasoned with soy
sauce so we started asking for 'a soy.' Then literally everything vaguely stir fry like would be 'a soy.' Now, you could argue that stir-fry then is the same, but I'd argue
it's less reductive and less misused. I can't comment on Sri Lankan dishes, but for example most popular Thai 'curries' available to the Western market are kaeng,
but there are kaeng that are brothy, soupy and braised that we would never call curry. So we're disregarding their own classification, the nuances in the dishes, and
generally just being confusing. (Actually, extra funny, 'yellow curry' is kaeng kari, as in kaeng flavored with curry. Or, by our translation track record, curry curry!
Kinda like getting some chai tea...)

But whatever, it's so ingrained now that I suppose it's pointless to try to fight it. Just leaves a bad taste in my mouth.

Edit: Like why does goulash get to be goulash? Why do we use the specific names for European stewed dishes but anything that is from a dozen different South
East Asian countries just get slapped with 'curry'?
[Curry leaves](https://www.bonappetit.com/story/what-are-curry-leaves)

I'm South Indian and we use the leaves in basically everything we make!
My husband ate it. He was miserable. I can't tolerate spicy food.
Not OP but I toast about 8 or 10 dried chiles every time I need the powder, it's not big deal - seeding takes more time than toasting and grinding. But if you really
want to kick it up a notch, since you're already in the thick of it, make a paste - heat about 1/2 cup of broth or water in the microwave, soak the chiles and any other
dried spices (cumin seed, oregano) for about 15 minutes, then blend it. I do the whole thing in the container that came with my immersion blender. Takes the flavor
to the next level!
I’ll do about as many as can fit on a sheet pan and I have a blade coffee grinder that is reserved for spices that I’ll grind them in. Depending on how much you need
you may need to work in batches.

Something like:

1) get rid of the stem and seeds so that you have flesh left

2) toast in the oven or in something like a cast iron skillet

3) if you want to include cumin in whatever you’re making, toasting whole seeds in a similar way is also a great idea

4) crush up the pepper skins and grind them in batches

5) do the same with the cumin

6) create a seasoning blend of all of the above, smoked and spicy paprika, and whatever else you want. Use it soon, and refrigerate it in a sealed container
between uses

One really good thing to do is to get some ancho chiles and make an ancho chile rub for steaks and such. I also use this for chili con carne and other Mexican and
Southwestern dishes. For chili con carne you can simmer the chile skins in chicken broth and blend that as your chili base instead of the dry roasted approach
above.
Agree entirely with your blend!
> minor ingredient

how dare you
It's not our fault the dead Brits who started this couldn't spell foreign words!
I’ll give that to you, with Indian cuisine it’s pretty clear.

Most of your examples were chilli though, god help that self proclaimed Texan making that “Texas chilli.”
That depends on them. I'll start putting out some recipes here and see if it catches though.
I don't know, what's their life fucking story? How will that tie into it? I just gotta know, can't possibly just make a recipe without it.

/s
I would agree with you if the author is a cook/chef from Texas, southwest, southern Colorado, Utah or Mexico etc, etc, ad nauseum. Dude who wants to relay their
life changing experience with a now defunct restaurant and dives head first into depression due to the clousure before trying to re-create the dish, or "this one time
in india" recipe writers often grab the first box of chili powder or curry and leave it at that.
It may apply to Canada as well, I'm just not 100% sure, hence my disclaimer.
I go by recipe origin. If it's written by someone in US or Canada, then "chili powder" probably means the blend. (add comment about stereotypical North American
oblivion to what the rest of the world does here). If it originates from anywhere else, it _probably_ means powdered chiles. When in doubt, add half to start, then
taste & adjust accordingly.
So, to explain - I write recipes for Chinese dishes. Most recipes assume access to a Chinese or Asian supermarket in North America or Europe.

At a Chinese or Asian supermarket, most of the time chili powder would be referred to as chili powder on the English labelling. Ditto with the labelling on Amazon
and other online retailers. I'm certainly aware that what's sold at bog standard supermarkets in the USA is labelled 'cayenne pepper'. But if I called for 'cayenne
pepper' in the recipe (1) you (likely) would not be able to find a product labelled cayenne at a Chinese supermarket and (2) it would be inaccurate, because often the
cultivar of chilis used in these chili powder products would be different than cayenne.

If I have a dish that calls for chili powder *and* is what I like to refer to as recipes in our "Western supermarket club" (i.e. recipes that can be executed without
access to a Chinese or Asian supermarket), I will usually put something akin to 'chili powder - cayenne pepper is also ok'.

At some point though, you simply have to make choices about what details to leave in and what details to leave out (else things can quickly become unwieldy), and
trust the reader to be able to have the common sense to not use a tex-mex chili powder spice blend for a Sichuanese recipe.
I am genuinely surprised. I’d always thought that chilli powder was just that - powdered chillis!
Beans in chili are fine for hobos.
> I'd like to see "powdered chili peppers" and "chili seasoning" to eliminate all ambiguity.

I've seen "(prepared) chili powder" in reference to the blend. I think that works. The problem is the other really, if you want specifically powdered chili only, it should
be:

Powdered [insert chili type] Chili.

Examples would be "Powdered New Mexico Chili" or "powdered chipotle chili"...

though TBH... USUALLY I see these listed as "ground" rather than "Powdered".
> l'd like to see 'powdered chili peppers" and "chili seasoning" to eliminate all ambiguity.

I live in Texas where chili is a very popular dish, so at least here, you'd refer to chili powder as the mix (because you'd use it in say, chili) and "chile powder" as a
ground chile.
Pshh, get a load of this guy! Doesn’t even know what a taslebpoon is /s
in the us I assume its cayenne, they dont really refer to a specific chili pepper, but the really hot peppers are usually refered to by name.
i follow recipes for foods from other countries, often dishes will call for a chili powder, they mean actual ground up chilis. in the us i only see cayenne in basic
grocery stores for actual ground up chili pepper. I know theres stuff called chili powder but that has other spices, i think that should say blend or mix in the name.
Did this thread come from you making chili? I’m making some tonight, I’m excited
To me red pepper flakes from the spice aisle are actually quite hot. They’re usually used as a garnish spice for pizza and pasta
I know a guy that thinks black pepper is far too spicy
"red pepper flakes" are just dried rolled chili peppers (crushed but not fine-ground) [where I come from.](https://www.bulkbarn.ca/en/products/all/chili-peppers-
crushed-855)

(at the link they're called crushed chili peppers, but that's the only kind I've ever seen.)
Red pepper flakes are not made from red bell pepper like the name implies. They are instead typically a mix of various spicy peppers (cayenne pepper usually
makes up the bulk of it). So yes red pepper flakes do tend to be fairly spicy especially for those without a decent spice tolerance.
Maybe Korean red pepper flakes? Not terribly hot, but sooooooo good.
Is it not clearly marked as a mix? I’m so confused.
From what I read from that Wikipedia, chilli is an umbrella term for many different kinds of chilis (peppers). It is like if they just called their bottle of spice "pepper
peppers".
Your own link states that "chili" peppers are a variety including:

* Bell
* Cayenne
* Jalapeño
* New Mexico
* Poblano
* Habanero
* etc.

Which are *vastly* different from one another. Think mistaking paprika for cayenne powder.

But I usually just assume "chili powder" means the blend unless otherwise noted. It's not like I stick hard and fast to the ingredients list anyway.
Buddy make some Chicken Paprikash and tell me it's a 'worthless spice'. That's a flavour explosion.
They're wrong and should be ashamed of themselves. XD
Sometimes. We usually spell it chilli with two ls here. But they dont sell "chilli powder" as a flavoured pre made spice mix. If you see "chilli powder" it just means
ground up red chillies and nothing else. Hence not being able to have this confusion in my country.
And don’t get me started on recipes that call for red hot chili peppers…
Except Argentinians, who instead insist there was no accident and that the wood chipper did nothing wrong.
That sounds like bullshit but I don't know enough about pepper etymology to dispute it
"Well hi there officer....we've had a doozy of a day"
Here in Australia we spell it "chilli/chillies" for the actual vegetable. I always think it looks funny with just one l. Its always interesting to see how spellings change all
over the world.

For the meal we usually say chilli con carne.
Where do you come from?

In New Zealand it's Chilli plant, chilli fruit, chilli powder.... I'm just never sure if it's chillies or chillis though.

Chile is only a country.

It won't do to create universal rules such as "chilli is not a vegetable" - that's simply not how language works. The reason I specified where I was from in my original
comment was ro contextualise my understanding of different terms. There is simply no point in arguing for any strict definition though. (but I think what i said makes
the sense :p)
Chile is a country. Chilli is the vegetable.
Hahah, nope. Chile is a country.

>Chili powder is the spice mix used to flavor the beef stew known as 'chili'.

Clearly it's a bean porridge with meat ;-)
As others have said, you're wrong. The US is unusual in spelling it with an e.
The vegetable is more often spelled 'chili', ~~*especially* in Spanish-speaking countries~~.

Edit: maybe not more often so in Spanish-speaking countries, but in my experience at least both spellings are common.
Yes. And it's also a type of pepper depending on where in the world you live and what language you speak.
Yeah, reddit is weird. You can say something that's 100% accurate & relevant to the conversation.

No one pays any attention to what the voting system is for.
Its "chilli powder" as in powder for chilli (the dish) not "powdered chiles"
Absolutely, cumin is essential to good chili.
I use ancho chile powder/ground ancho chile in my Texas chili, along with fresh onions and garlic, ground comino, black pepper, and other stuff.
I have two now, both by Meera Sodha. "Made in India" was the first I bought, and has been very enjoyable. It has both vegetarian and meat based recipes. "Fresh
India" is all vegetarian recipes, and I'm still exploring it. Haven't been disappointed yet. I had to order a couple of things like Kashmiri chili powder and amchur online
for it, but they were cheap and well worth having.
I've certainly heard Cayene powder in recipes by americans on Youtube.
At least for Indian food, chili powder exclusively means ground red chilies. The mix of various spices is never referred to a chili powder in any context.
Asians spell it "chilli".

Because we use British spelling, not Freedom.
Kashmir chili is the equivalent of paprika; mostly used for color and very low on the scoville scale.

What's *always* used is "chili powder" for which cayenne is an acceptance substitute.
That’s a good point. It would be helpful if the author wrote garam masala spice blend instead or did a sub recipe with their suggested blend.

The only thing with making your own blend is that it can be a little tedious to get the ratios right. It also adds time to the cooking process. Both of which might make
it harder for a new cook.
Do thse recipes ask for all of the spices added at once, or at different stages of cooking?
If they ask for whole spices early in to fry in oil and ask to add garam masala late in it makes sence.
That's more understandable, since Indians do cook with pre-mixed garam masala to which they add some other stuff.

As Nesseressi pointed out, some spices might be added whole, and often at different stages. There's also no standard garam masala mix for all of South Asia, it
differs from region to region (and it'd be nice if the recipe authors addressed that). It might not always contain the spices the recipe asks for separately. It can be a
blend of spices that would otherwise all be added in small quantities compared to the rest.
Anchos have a lovely, fruity, slightly spicy fragrance, and should be cranberry red when fully ripe, broken apart for deseeding, and held up to the light. If I have time
I can make chile paste from the anchos. It's so good but a lot of work.
You can't tell the heat level by looking at the chile.
Huh, I wonder what that was? Korean food isn't crazy spicy in my opinion, but maybe you're only supposed to use small amounts of that ground chili
Lol amazing.
I’d love to know what it is specifically if you get a chance to check - even cayenne is pretty mild by my standards lol
Try the Chili Con Carne spice from Penzeys.

It's got a good hit of spice, and lots of flavor, for those that like a mild Chili.

I add some ancho chile powder when I want hot Chili, but the flavor from the Chili con Carne spice is top notch.
Oh! I learned this lesson! Thought I was saving some money. Nope. Just ended up with a spicy bag of powder I couldn't figure out what to do with.
Which is the most overused component in most all Tex-Mex or Mexican recipes you see out there.
Holy shit that sounds amazing
Mexican oregano is the only oregano to use for Mexican cooking, in my opinion. I once used Italian oregano in one of my pots of chile and vowed to do it never
again.
Honestly, I think it has more to do with the chili powder being kinda rancid by the time people get around to using it. I mean, it's smells like it's already a decade old
by the time you get it home from the grocery store.

"Fresh" dried chilies, like guajillos and anchos make such a delicious chili sauce. Along with real garlic and onion, instead of the onion and garlic powders, which are
totally different flavor profiles.
Very light cumin is like MSG, it’s an underrated atomic bomb of awesomeness in flavor
I love cumin but I don't care if you do or not. :P
I wouldn’t normally downvote an opinion no matter how extraordinarily incorrect.
I'm not too big on taco seasoning packs, but really like cumin in Indian dishes
Wow. TIL!
I don't think that is universally true. I don't trust any product called "chili/e powder" no matter how it's spelled.
My GI tract has put a hit out on my tongue by now, I'm sure.
Step 2 uses the "2 tablespoons chili powder" ingredient and Step 3 uses the "1/2 teaspoon chili powder" ingredient. I imagine AllRecipes doesn't offer a lot of
customization to group ingredients how you should prep them, so they're just listed separately.
I assure you, the problem is significantly more widespread than just allrecipes -- that's just the easiest source to google up quickly.

Maybe it's not a point of confusion for well-seasoned cooks like you, but hopefully this post will help some less familiar folks avoid a pitfall!
I also haven't seen this.
If a recipe calls for Chili Powder, I use a Chili Powder spice mix.

If it calls for chili powder and refers to a powdered chili, I would expect to see "Chipotle Chili Powder" "Birds Eye Chili Powder" etc.

If the recipe intends for powdered chili, and it doesn't specify a type, that's not really setup well either.
I still often click on allrecipes when I google search because it feels like it's the only search result that doesn't include a blog with dozens of pictures, millions of ads,
that takes 20 seconds to load
Right?! It would be so much clearer to specifically state the exact mix of plant material rather than have me guess *which* chili and spice mix works best.
There's no way that first recipe calls for a non-blend. It has *no flavour* otherwise.
Wow, flat out wrong.
Except that, as u/mapoftasmania already explained, [they are literally interchangeable](https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/usage-chili-chilli-chile).
/r/badlinguistics
Chili is what the gringos and Black domestic workers/slaves made when they adapted indigenous American chile con carne stews with the mince meat
dishes/seasonings of Europe and Africa.
Albuquerque native here. This is correct.

I like chili. I love chile, red or green.
I use chili powder, made with chile, in my chili dish.
Ah yea. There are three of us!!
It’s because ya’ll are trying to make Colorado Green Chile a thing (which is sacrilegious) and you’ve adopted the “e” so it at least reads as legit.
I live in Colorado, and yeah, you’re right.

Dang ol’ transplants, I’ll tell you hwat.
I could ask my Chilean colleague. Well, any of my three Chilean colleagues.

Edit: Juan sez it's "chili," so get fucked
This seems like a reasonable rule of thumb.

It's a frustrating mistake to make though! Especially if you buy "chili powder" from a different market, and don't think to check the ingredients.
Perhaps if you’re new to cooking. If you’re not a novice though it’s obvious from context ~100% of the time. Like Indian food isn’t going to call for chili powder, and a
Texas-style chili will mean chili powder (and usually also call for cayenne powder making it even more obvious).
Miserable twice, if my memory works
>stereotypical North American oblivion

You could just as easily blame the British for their poor bastardization of Spanish words
Some guy in this thread informed me it's Texas' fault, giving a complete dish the same name as just one of the spice ingredients.
I don't think I've ever seen that spelling referring to the pepper -- only the country.
I laughed way too hard at this

It's been a long week already
There are many kinds of chili, but I have only ever seen one kind of product sold with the name "chili powder".
I have never read a recipe that means "cayenne" when it says "chili powder" or "chile powder". I love cayenne, but mixing the two sounds like a horrible mistake.
I don’t disagree but for that to change the actual product’s name needs to change first in the store before recipes can reference it by that new name.
pulled pork, in fact -- so we're going to see how it turns out
It's marked as "chili powder." You're supposed to know it's a mix.

Except when it isn't.
Indian markets around here sell a generic "chili powder" that is just some nonspecific ground hot peppers. It's the main reason I made this post.
somehow, "paprika" is a flavorless powder here primarily used to make things reddish.

I'm not sure what kind of paprika is sold as "paprika" here but a "flavour explosion" it is not
Sounds lovely!

Don't try making it using any US recipes.
Poor Flea. He never stood a chance!
The support of Argentina was pretty much the only thing that prevented a war.
What, you never tried ground Chileans before? Delicious. Brings a whole new level to any dish.
I have dual degrees in Chilean law and cannibalism, and it's definitely a farce.
He's saying they threw people into a wood chipper to make chile powder
I do know enough about pepper entomology to say that bugs which eat peppers don't like humans all that much.
It was a joke LOL
In the US chili con carne is a specific kind of chili. Larger, whole pieces of beef (as would be used in a beef stew) braised in a broth of various pureed dried chiles
(usually ancho, chipotle, arbol). There's so much depth of flavor in dried chiles - underneath the heat there's raisin and chocolate and smoke. You'll never think
about hot peppers the same way again.
Yes: people are sometimes oblivious to geographical variations in language and are quick to assume that the terms used in their country or region are universal.

I remember seeing a post a couple of weeks ago with a picture of somebody's crème caramel; they were avalanched with comments saying "no, that's flan" or
suggesting that they were being pretentious by dressing it up with a fancy name.
Chile is both the country and vegetable in Spanish.
Chiles are native to Spanish speaking countries, and chile etymology is likely from an indigenous word, so I'm just gonna go with how it's spelled by the people who
named it, mkay?
Latin American countries, where most of the chiles in question come from, spell it Chile with an E.
chili is chilli is chile depending on where you are

afaik chilli is the global (not US) English spelling for the stew/pepper which we call chili in the English speaking parts of the US
Can you send me your garlic recipe? I've got this garlic powder in my cabinet but I don't know how to make garlic (the dish)
You’re right. The previous poster mentioned “powdered [ ]” while you’re saying “[ ] powder”. The latter is definitely commonly used
Even “Kashmiri chili for color” has some heat to it!
The stuff I got from a nearby large Indian grocery store definitely has heat to it. Not quite as much as cayenne powder but closer to that than, say, a semi-mild
Korean gochukaru.

It's the only bag I've bought because it's a pretty big bag and I don't do lot of cooking that calls for it, so I don't have anything else to compare it to, but the bag I
have is definitely not like paprika
The gochugaru (korean red pepper flakes/powder) definitely varies in heat level depending on what you buy. To the eye it looks the same, a red powder or coarser
red flakes, but the packaging will usually tell you how spicy it is.

I eat (and cook) a lot of Korean food and while most of it isn't crazy spicy, I do occasionally come across a dish at a restaurant that will melt your tongue off. It's
usually the spicy pork belly stir fry. There's also buldak ramen which is made to be as hot as possible, but that's more of a novelty than anything else.
Make Indian food?
It can be overused, which may make your food bitter or... uh, fecal. But it's absolutely essential for certain recipes. Just add what the recipe says. Then, about 20
minutes later, taste the food, and add a little more.

Certain seasonings can ruin a dish if you add too much. Salt is the most common one. I prefer to slightly undersalt food than put in too much. That's why I have salt
on the table.
Where do you live? If you're in the US, you should be able to find dried chilies at the grocery, especially if there is a significant population of Mexican immigrants in
your city.
I'll have to try it used lightly...every chili blend I've ever used is like getting a shot to the chops from the cumin clown, it just dominates everything
This is true of some chili powders in the UK, but only because they've been adulterated with small amounts of other spices. They are still over 80% ground chillies,
and are meant to be used primarily for adding heat not as a general spice mix.
Especially as in other parts of the anglosphere it's spelt chi**ll**i.
TBH, this is a problem with most free recipe sites. Most people have shitty taste, make shitty food, and sometimes throw shit up they've never even tried to cook to
get those precious internet points (or real ad dollars)

I pay for cookbooks and occasionally subscription websites/apps. The food isn't always better, but having a paid editor means they're rarely worse.
Yea it has no flavor because its a poorly written recipe.
Just the way maw would make it
A well written recipe would state whether a blend should be used or not.

These recipes either call for straight chili powder or they're bad recipes.
I mean it's been a thing all my life and it's nothing new.
[Juan does not seem to be great at Spanish](https://translate.google.com/?sl=en&tl=es&text=chili&op=translate)
Disagree! I've been cooking for like 30 years, and I found this out last month because of reddit. I've roasted my own chilis to make powders and used them in
recipes designed for "chili powder" spice blends, not knowing this was a thing.

After you know this is a thing, then yes, you can probably figure out which one is meant. But it's only obvious if you already know!
Depends on the spice he had a south Korean ramen that was miserable three times last week.
> the British for their poor bastardization of Spanish words

[Pie-ell-la](https://ih0.redbubble.net/image.279826821.7250/flat,800x800,075,f.u1.jpg)
Yea regionally chile is the spelling for pepper in the southwest. For example, New Mexico is a significant producer of peppers and as a state and at their
universities they spell it chile, and in Mexico, chile is the most common (chile de arbol, for example). Texas state dish is chili. So, around here it is very cut and dry
what is what! If turkey can be a country and food I don't see a reason why chile can't be either haha.

Generally within hot pepper lover circles, chile is the chosen spelling for peppers - you'll notice a lot of local/independent hot sauce makers around the country use
the word chile on their bottles if they're not specifically referring to a particular pepper.
It's the Spanish word. It helps differentiate from the American dish chili. American chili was likely inspired by Mexican chile con carne. Texas chili at least is based
on Mexican chile con carne.
They don’t list any chili powder mixes that aren’t clearly denoted as actual spice mixes.
Where I live its common to serve chilli con carne with rice. Like a curry. My girlfriend is American she says eating chilli with rice would basically be a crime in the
US. But its my favourite way to eat it.
I don't think so. Chile con Carne is the full name of the dish. It does not refer to any specific recipe or variation.
By native you mean nasci? And by Spanish you mean Español? And country you mean cuntree?
Chilli is a hot pepper in the UK and its former colonies, and in Southeast Asia. The stew ("red or green" is the official state question of New Mexico) is chile con
carne. In Texas, where the "bowl of red" as we know it was invented, it's generally called chili. The usual dried chile we use is ancho, or a blend of ancho and
guajillo. In New Mexico and Colorado, green chile (sauce or stew) generally contains Hatch chiles, and pork rather than beef.

People in LatAm call the peppers in general chiles, or whatever local name they use.
more like garllic, but yes, words suck and language fails.
It's supposed to give *you* colour
It's probably mislabeled or some other kind of chili from Kashmir but not "Kashmiri Chili Powder".

>###Kashmiri Chilli
>
>Known more for its colour than its spice, this chilli is ground into a powder and [is] so mild in its spiciness that it measures barely 2000 SHU (Scoville Heat Units).
>
>Source: https://www.india.com/travel/articles/8-indian-chillies-you-must-know-about-3241064/

For reference, paprika is usually between 250-1,000 on the scoville. Jalapeños are 2,500-8,000.
I used to live in Korea, and when I came back to the UK a Korean friend sent me a load of boxes of Buldak Ramen.

Opened them in the office and lots of colleagues crowded round the kitchen table to see if they could handle the spice. Everyone was dying apart from one Nigerian
guy who claimed it wasn't spicy at all and that his mum would just throw scotch bonnet chilli peppers into stews when he was growing up. He actually thought
Buldak ramen was delicious.

Fast forward a couple of years and I get a takeaway from a Nigerian restaurant on a whim. That guy wasn't lying. Nigerian food is so so so spicy that it's practically
inedible (far spicier than Buldak ramen amazingly).
Gochugaru made exclusively from Korean red peppers isn't super hot, but a lot of Koreans love their food spicier than that. They may add cayenne or something
with that kind of heat.
That was hard for me to try becuase I'm the only one in my house that likes it. I think I have it to an Indian friend after a while. It was years ago.
Yeah blends aren’t your friend, ever
I think cumin is a kind-of controversial taste. I enjoy it heavy in certain dishes, but some people can barely stand more than a hint of it. (And yeah, it's a cheap/easy
way for spice manufacturers to add that tex-mex flavor.)

[Arizona Dreaming](https://www.penzeys.com/online-catalog/arizona-dreaming-seasoning/c-24/p-295/pd-s) is a good chili mix that doesn't overly rely on cumin.
I really TIL'd with this - I've never seen anything other than chili powder in .. um ... chili powder. I consider myself educated now.
or they're calling for [this commercially-available spice blend](https://www.clubhouseforchefs.ca/en-ca/products/club-house/chili-powder600-gr)

ITT we're talking real world, not our idealized fantasy
If you’re in the US “chili powder” means the blend pretty much 100% of the time. It usually says cayenne powder or something like that if they mean ground chiles.
There’s no need to explain something that is common knowledge here.

What you’re saying is like saying a recipe needs to specify coriander seeds/powder here so people don’t use the leaves. That’s just not a mistake pretty much any
American cook would make.
I don't why your getting downvoted, ive never seen a recipe worth my time that assumed a spice blend(besides maybe garam masala) Why would you even cook
with a pre made spice blend? when recipes want you to use a blend, its usually specified and explained how to make it
Nosotros hablamos inglés aquí
What? There are examples (including links) throughout the thread.

More importantly: when reading a recipe, you:

1. may not be able to tell the difference, and
2. may not have even known there *was* a second thing that uses that same name.

There are people throughout this thread that for the first time understood why their recipe went poorly. Because even if it's obvious to you (having learned this
before), it's not something that would instinctively be obvious to everybody.

Imagine someone told you that there was a different kind of garlic that tastes like peaches, and suddenly you understood why your homemade garlic pie was awful.
Chili (and any bean recipe really) needs to be paired with a good whole grain. Rice sounds lovely. I've used corn mixed in, and usually eat it with fresh whole wheat
bread as well.
he’s not talking about a specific recipe, he was just describing traditional chili con carne in general. which is braised meat, various chilis, and other flavors which
provide depth, such as dried fruit, coffee, chocolate.
It refers to the specific type of chili that is made with beef chunks and dried pureed chilis...

I assure you, "con carne" does not apply to all chilis, particularly my vegan version that uses beans, corn and squash to fill out the protein profile...
True. "Chili with meat" lol, obviously there can be a lot of variety.
Ooh, hahaha, you called me a cunt, but hid it in another word.

You're so very, very clever.
We're on the same page
actually where I'm from it's spelled garlec
Oh wow, someday I'll have to give that a try.
Uh, no. Thats not how good recipes work. Haha
I am in the US and chili powder means just that chili powder- plan ground chilies. I have multiple bottles in my pantry- not a single one is a blend.

[Source](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chili_powder)
I mean… it’s a common recipe practice even for “trusted” recipe writers.

I just checked cooks illustrated/Americas Test Kitchen and a lot their recipients call for “Chili Powder”. These are all western recipes (like black bean chili) so yeah,
this doesn’t really apply to other cuisines but it’s not exactly an uncommon recipe tactic (at least in the US). For reference their recommended “chili powder” is
Mortan and Bassett which is a blend.

Why would you want to use a blend? Convenience. A lot of people don’t want to keep 7 spices on hand if they can keep one jar that does basically the same thing.
You lose control and freshness but most home cooks don’t mind.
That person is being downvoted because they're a) out of touch with reality and b) being an ass.
[removed]
Exactly! I cannot belive so many people dont know this!
I was specifically looking at McCormick and their actual product listings.
Ive had it by itself, with cornbread, with corn chips and with plain white rice and the rice is by far my fave. Must be topped in lots of green onions!
>In the US chili con carne is a specific kind of chili.

This is what they said. I'm saying this is wrong. I'm saying chili is just a short form of chile con carne which is the full name for all types of chili.
I would call that traditional chili or Texas chili if I had to give a name to the "real" chili variety. You can just call it chili though. It's beyond debate that the word "chili"
is a shortened form of the term "chili con carne" or "chile con carne" though.
Not at all, country is a French word originally spelled "cuntree" look it up if you don't believe me... Mmkay?

Otherwise if you can explain why you care about the etymology of one word, but not others, I'm all ears. Or perhaps - you know, maybe language evolves and
words are adapted to new languages as those languages adopt those words.

My guess is you call it a chile because of your regional/language context. Not because of its etymology :p


Honestly...I wouldn't call you a cunt? A) that word isn't offensive in New Zealand so wouldn't be enough of an insult and B) you haven't offended me, I don't want to
name call you here.
ok bud
The biggest spice brand in the US sells [this blend](https://www.mccormick.com/spices-and-flavors/herbs-and-spices/spices/chili-powder?amp=1) simply labeled
"chili powder". It's what you would find in the majority of American kitchens. Maybe not in a professional setting, but for home cooking, this is what "chili powder"
means.
Assuming you are shopping a standard us store if you buy a bottle labeled “Chili powder” it’s almost always going to be a blend. If you are getting a single type of
ground chili it’s going to be labeled with the type of chili (I.e Ancho chili powder). This is even the case if you go to a specialty spice store like Penzey’s.

Now, if you are going to a store dedicated to a different cuisine (I.e. a Thai or Indian grocery store) things may be different since chili powder in other parts of the
world have different meanings.

If you are buying jars just labeled “chili powder” and it truly just contains dried chilis it’s not at all the norm in us grocery stores.
Yeah, I don’t know what the fuck any of these people are talking about. I cooked professionally for 20 years. I’ve never heard of this. These are just terrible recipes.
i cant see their recipes(pay wall) but they seem pretty clear in the way they write in their articles. i don't see any ambiguity here or leaving it to the reader to assume

https://www.cooksillustrated.com/articles/32-best-ground-beef-chili-recipe

> , I sautéed a few spoonfuls of store-bought chili powder (a stand-in for the homemade blend I planned to mix up later),
Removed, keep it civil.
https://ibb.co/T83kKjd
Chili con carne is Spanish for chili with meat.

Con means with.

Carne means meat, usually beef.

Chili con carne is not the name for all chili's.

And I've never seen it as a meal, it's a topping, usually on enchiladas.
Con carne means "with meat." So no, chili con carne is not the name for all types of chili. And yes, chili con carne refers to a specific style of chili.

r/confidentlyincorrect
but there are chili’s that are not chili con carne
Actually, it comes from Latin.
You just have to cook more and read more recipes, then you'll understand.
If you an amateur cook, sure.

Is your debate that "chili powder" is branded incorrectly? If so, I agree.
So you mean if you arent reading labels. The whole problem is that amateur cooks dont read lables, use crap recipes and never learn how to cook decent food.
Thank you! I know I'm not crazy!
Every recipe is a little different the black bean chili i looked at just called for “chili powder”.

I’m point was more that it’s not like professional recipe writers don’t call for the blends, they do. Personally I use whole dried chilies but I know a lot of people who
just go for the pre mixed stuff
So toss it. The company doesn’t even sell that or list it anymore.
You mean like when you would use a modifier like vegetarian chili? White chicken chili? Chili with beans? You're saying vegetarian chile con carne etc but just using
the short form or nickname.
Obviously. French is one of the primary Romantic languages.

... Nice chatting :) see ya
literally been cooking for longer than you've been alive, but OK
I mean I do read ingredients . If you go into a U.S. super market and buy chili powder it’s 99% going to be a blend. In general, if you read a recipe aimed at a U.S.
audience and it calls for chili powder it means the product you can find in every Supermarket.

You can get all high and mighty about “armatures” but even professional recipe writers use the blend since it’s what the majority of people are familiar with.
I guess the irony of my post complaining about things not being clear is its not clear. A well written recipe can use a spice blend, they wouldn't assume the reader
knows what they mean and what it should taste like. I would think it would include specific blend to use.

some thing like

1 tsp spice blend (see pg 40)

the chili powders linked throughout this thread are so variable, from just garlic and chili to the huge blend in the Mortan and Bassett you pointed out. I guess context
matters, if cooks illustrated makes it clear what brand they're recommending it would make sense to be less verbose in related articles.

goes back to the other point, allrecipes is crap lol
That doesn't help fix the broad confusion over what "chili powder" is, or the fact that most people aren't even aware there *is* a confusion

BTW https://www.clubhouse.ca/en-ca/mccormick-gourmet/products/spices/chili-powder
There seems to be pockets of hate out there for this lettuce, but I personally think it's worth it. How do you feel about this humble leafy green?
It's crunchy, has a mild flavor, but because of that can go with anything.

Despite the inaccurate "it doesn't have nutritional value" mantra, it *is* a great ingredient. And that's probably why people devalue it; it's *only* an ingredient. If you
try and make it the only, or even predominant, part of a dish, you end up with a relatively bland dish.

A lot of people encounter iceberg as a low cost bulk ingredient instead of a part of a coherent whole. Schools, for example, have to stretch the hell out of their
budget. So a "salad" can often mean a handful of iceberg with a tong full of carrot, and some bulk dressing. And that's not good food.

But taken as a part of building a salad, with multiple vegetables that have strong flavors, and nutrient density, you end up with something amazing. There really isn't
another green with that crunch that isn't also not a lettuce. And because the taste of iceberg is *very* mild, it serves as both a carrier got other flavours, *and* a way
to let those other flavours shine in turn.

See, when your fork has a nice chunk of iceberg, a little tomato, a little carrot, maybe some radish or strawberry, or whatever, each chew is going to pop with a
slightly different combination of tastes because the iceberg clears the previous chew a little.

Nothing wrong with other lettuces and greens at all, but let's be real here; if all you've got in your salad is a mix of darker greens, it's just as one note and boring as
only iceberg. You add some iceberg to that mix, and you can suddenly discern the chard from the endive. There's this gustatory spacing achieved by the mildness
of iceberg that makes everything else shine.

And that property doesn't end with salads. It's part of why iceberg is the default shredded topping for so many dishes. It's able to cleanse the palate while you're
chewing. It also serves that role in sandwiches. Things like hamburgers, with that fatty goodness, benefit from the clarity of iceberg. You can get crunch with
sandwiches in other ways, but very few don't become a competitor to the other flavours. Even the humble dill pickle slice can't give you that neutrality to let the rest
shine brighter.

That's my thoughts on iceberg lettuce, the short version.
BLTs and Wedge salads. perfect for that.
I love iceberg lettuce. On sandwiches, but as salads, too. It’s so, so crunchy and satisfying and it tastes delicious. I could munch it plain. The only shit I hear talked
about it is that it doesn’t have much nutritional value but I don’t care.
It's not my first choice, but i harbor no animosity towards it
I've never forgiven it for what it did to the Titanic.
I use it exclusively for tacos. Nothing beats biting into the cool, crunchy, wetness mixed with the hot and steamy flavorful taco meat. That hot/cold sensation is
underrated. When I see someone heating an entire taco, it makes me die a little inside haha
I absolutely love it shredded on tacos and sammiches, even a nice crisp wedge. But in salads, I'll use a romaine/arugula mix.
Crunchy goodness. Should it run solo in a salad? I say no, but it can be a helping green in a salad or add some crumch and freshness to a burger
My fave salad to make:
https://smittenkitchen.com/2014/06/nancys-chopped-salad/

And yes, a crispy leaf on a burger or sandwiches elevates each. Plus, tacos!!!

It works fine in things like taco salad or on a burger. But for salad, I like butter lettuce or spring mix better. I don't love it, but I don't hate it either.
I love it for burgers, sandwiches, tacos, etc. And for wedge salad and lettuce wraps. In other contexts though I prefer romaine.
Nothing beats iceberg when it comes to texture, but it's severely lacking in the taste and nutrition departments. For salad greens, I mix 1/3 iceberg for texture, 1/3
spinach for nutrition, and 1/3 romaine, butter, or arugula for flavor.

When it comes to burgers, the only thing that comes close to iceberg is romaine (with the exception for arugula on certain craft burgers).
Have you ever had korean bbq? Use it for wrapping small parcels of grilled seasoned meat/ veggies and it is from the gods.

#FROM THE GODS!
I like it, but I almost reflexively buck against food snobbishness, so that may add to my favorable opinion.
I was just talking to my friend yesterday about how iceberg is so underrated. It's perfect on sandwiches because it's so crunchy and mild flavored. It's amazing
shredded on tostadas or subs. It's good as an accompanying lettuce in a salad.
I like lettuce with actual flavor in salads personally. But a crispy leaf on a burger is good.
Love it. Wedge salad or on a burger.
I like it on sandwiches or burgers but in a salad I like it mixed with other greens.

Unless it’s a wedge salad with bacon and blue cheese.
I just remembered this awesome dish... sprinkle with toasted peanuts or cashews.

[Stir-Fried Iceberg Lettuce](https://www.saveur.com/article/Recipes/Stir-Fried-Iceberg-Lettuce/)
It’s great when you shred it on a sandwich, especially a sub and season it with a little salt. It holds oils very well.

I used to hate on it but on a lot of sandwiches there really isn’t a substitute for it. You want something that’s crunchy with a lot of moisture to feel refreshing, just a
mild sweetness, and neutral enough to not compete with your other toppings and other lettuces are too strong.

I wouldn’t use it on a salad or any dish where the greens are the main player though.
Crispy water. That’s it.
Here’s David Chang explaining why it’s the best lettuce: https://twitter.com/davidchang/status/1316062679149105152?s=20
Nothing goes better in a BLT than iceberg lettuce. Tuna sandwiches are so much better with iceberg lettuce and where would be without iceberg lettuce cups for
our Asian cuisine?
Water and fiber are very important parts of a healthy diet.
Crunchy = good
My mom loves it, I really don't. For me it is crunchy water that leaves me very disappointed. And I have tried to like it, to find it a place, but no.

Glad you like it.
When I want a lot of crunch and all the other ingredients provide plenty of flavor, then iceberg is great. When the lettuce is more of the star of the dish, I go for more
flavorful varieties.
I think I attribute my ambivalent feelings on iceberg to growing up in a remote northern community. In the grocery store it was always a choice between low quality
iceberg, low quality romaine, or okay quality spinach. Good quality was out of the question back then, but I hear it’s gotten better since I moved away. But between
low quality iceberg or low quality romaine I will always pick romaine because it keeps it’s crunch and flavour longer. I always found that the iceberg heads that come
wrapped in plastic go limp and sad so fast and serve very little purpose after that. At least if your spinach starts to go weird you can stir it into a pasta sauce or
something and you could never tell.
It's cheap, it's convenient, it lasts longer than a lot of other types of lettuce. It also doesn't have any bitter taste to it like many other leafy vegetables, and it's got a
satisfying crunch. It's a win in my book, although sweet gem/ little gem are my favourites.
Iceberg is the crappiest of all lettuce. It takes me back to the days of incredibly generic and flavorless salads that my parents would make us as kids.

Hate hate hate
Hate it on sandwiches. Hate it on burgers. Hate it in salads. Completely worthless and I wish it would stop being popular.
Cold, green paper.
I know it's kinda low brow, but I love iceberg (especially shredded) on burgers, sandwiches, tacos, and included with its more sophisticated cousin greens in salads
or wraps. My favorite might be the humble Honeymoon Salad.
Hater here. The flavorless, tough, unwelcome intruder that we call iceberg is banished from my fridge. What a horrible base for a salad when there are so many
other lettuces and greens out there with better flavor and texture. Iceberg based salad is what old people eat, and I dread the inevitability of it every time I visit my
parents (I'm almost 40). I don't want it interloping in my burger or sandwich disturbing the balance of flavors, and being from Southern California, tacos come with
onion and cilantro.
In the hate camp: lowest nutritional value & flavor profile of lettuces. Such a waste of time.
I'm quite snobby about food. I love iceberg for lots of applications. It has some flavour but as a sweet crunchy leafy green there is no alternative to icy-cold iceberg.
For best results you should shred it, and submerge it in ice cold water for a few minutes before spinning it dry.

I think its the best leafy green for for BLT, Taco's, Stuffed Pita's.

Its a solid "crunchy" option for salad greens especially when you mix it something pungent like arugala, mustard greens or alfalfa sprouts.
LOVE it when I'm craving crunch and trying to limit carbs.

It plays a great role in salads or sandwiches for the same reason, the same way a toast point or cracker does for other foods, it's a contrast to the other textures. But
it can also be the star like in a wedge salad.
Firmly on the love side.

I don’t like the taste and or texture of other lettuces.

It’s crunchy, doesn’t overpower other ingredients, you can use it as a wrap or cup for other ingredients, and it’s freaking delicious!
I used to really hate it, it's almost entirely tasteless, it's annoying to get on your fork, it's not really that nutritious and I hated the consistency. I kinda changed my
mind, i like the crunchiness now and eat it on pizza, burgers, pitas, salads i.e caeser salad, shrimp cocktails.

It's still really bland though and i think it's messy.
I think it has uses, and one of those would be in a BLT. And it's perfect for a wedge salad.

Other than that I don't consider it useful or tasty, personally.
Its about the only lettuce i eat
Crunchy water good
I think it's a bland ingredient that imo usually doesn't add anything to the dish that cabbage cannot do better. I always pass on it when given the choice.
Gross... Butter or Romaine for life!!
Absolutely hate it. Hate all lettuce honestly, I hate the texture of it, it feels like a rubber leaf. A watery rubber leaf. People look at me weird when I ask for no salad
but I just can’t get into it. Dressings don’t taste all that great to me either.
Iceberg lettuce is good in sandwhiches and it makes a decent wedge salad besides that there is no use for it. I think you can feed it to domesticated animals like
rabbits, hamsters n guinea pigs etc
It has its place as a good crunch factor on burgers and sandwiches. But I don’t go out of my way to purchase it when more flavorful lettuces are available.
Good for wedge salad, on sandwiches, or when I just want to munch of something crunchy. Not so good for other salads. I don’t understand why it gets so much
hate. It’s great for some stuff, not others. Like every other ingredient.
i used to love iceberg lettuce but i’ve got long covid and it’s one of like two good items that tastes wrong now. it’s like dirt.
I think it doesn't have much nutrition but I love its crunchy texture. I often make little side salads of iceberg, cherry tomatoes, bit of feta, cucumber and some
balsamic to go with stuff like lasagne or steak + potatoes plus I make ham, cheese, tomato, lettuce sandwiches as well.
Mmm tastes like water.
It is basically nutritionally void. But it provides a nice crisp crunch in salads. I mix it with Romaine in my salads.
Crunchy dirt water.
It has a purpose and I don’t mind it.
English is not my first language and for a long time when I heard "iceberg lettuce" I thought it was some kind of frozen lettuce that wasn't properly thawed.

&#x200B;

That said, I think it's perfectly fine and don't understand the love or hate for it.
Like everything else,


A good iceberg lettuce is wonderful.


A bad one is awful.
People who hate oceberg but tolerate cilantro are psychopaths. I love the crunch and the taste.
I like it. It has good body and crunch with a mild enough flavour to make it versatile.
I prefer it for things like tacos or burritos anything where I want a shredded lettuce but for burgers, salad, lettuce cups then I'll choose other varieties
I like it on sandwiches.
I like it to add a crunch to my salads, but don't feel it has too much nutritional value. but we still buy and use for tacos, taco salads, BLT's, and burgers. but
otherwise we eat spring mix, and romaine mostly.
It's great filler for salads, and can act like a make shift mini vessel to put food in like rice, vegetables, and cooked, marinated beef.
Sweet and crunchy. Holds up decently in a sandwich, and is a good vehicle for a nice vinaigrette. Not as complex or tasty as a romaine, but scratches the salad itch
if that's not available.
Chopped thinly put on chinese fried rice
Although I eat other lettuce Iceberg remains my favorite at is it is the perfect degree of crispness.
I love iceberg lettuce. You're not going to get healthier eating it; it's not the most efficient way to obtain water; but I think it's delicious and I can eat large quantities
of it if necessary.
Crunchy deliciousness that goes amazing in kebabs.
Paired with Peanut butter in a sandwich. Just great.
I love a good wedge salad. A BLT is best with iceberg. These two things alone validate its existence.
I get what you guys are saying about its unique crunch and in a vacuum it’s a perfectly fine ingredient. Working in a restaurant I disliked it because the iceberg we
got went from beautiful crunchy to flimsy soggy mess very quickly. It was annoying to deal with and constantly have to replace.
Tonight, ima take that cold fresh iceberg and top it with some tomatoes and cucumbers, provolone, roasted chicken and real croutons. On top of that, ranch dressin’
- the hidden valley powder kind. Yay
It’s the only way to do a decent chop salad
As far as I know, you don't need to wash iceberg lettuce. You remove the outer leaves and just cut the rest up. I'm a little obsessive with washing salats. I grew up in
country where salat was often fertilized with human waste and you could catch nasty stuff. So I still wash regular salat three times. I don't use potassium
permanganate anymore, though....
I love iceberg in the right situation. Like a ham and cheese sandwich with a STACK of iceberg. The crunch and crisp are perfect. Get the right pickles, good mayo,
and some textured cheese in there and you're golden.

As others have said, a wedge salad is great to showcase the crunch. And while I love traditional street tacos or something, I really like shredded iceberg on a taco
as a crunch bomb. Maybe I like crunchy things. Like maybe short grain brown rice for fried rice. Who knows. Eat what you like.
We all know it’s only good for wedge salads and on burgers
As a mexican we use it as topping to many delicious foods so I love it, our combo of thin sliced iceberg, pickled red onion and radishes is so refreshing, add a
squeeze of lime and salsa and you're good to go: flautas, pozole, Jalisco style enchiladas, enfrijoladas or enjotimatadas, asado mazatleco, tostadas, sopes, etc.
Mmmm, crispy water.
The only thing it goes well with is pozole, other than that, I think its God's biggest mistake.
Love it. It's crunchy and refreshing. I love it for salads and sandwiches. It's a bitch peeling those leaves off though.
I like it. Goes well with sung choi bau, goes well with a wedge salad. It’s fine. It is pretty boring in a pretty boring salad, but literally everything is.
I love iceberg in taco salads, because it can stretch it so far. That’s great for people trying to be a little healthier.
It's a wonderful delivery vehicle for blue cheese dressing and bacon bits. A bit like white bread for peanut butter.
It’s a pretty unique texture so if that’s the texture I’m looking for in a topping I go with it. Pretty much just use it on burgers or sandwiches though.
love it, you should try it warm too (stirfried with oyster sauce and garlic, or in a soup)!
It’s a satisfying garnish.
One of the most delicious things on the planet. I could eat the stuff plain on a tortilla all day, just wouldn’t be very healthy.

Can’t beat the crunch.
I personally don't like the taste of iceberg, nothing about it's nutrients or anything I just don't like it. Also for the past couple months any type of lettuce taste almost
like I'm licking something metal (possible long lasting covid side effect? Idk. Question for another time). So yeah, I don't like it but I agree with what a majority have
been saying that there are many uses for it.
I think it tastes like water and you can get that same satisfying crunch from Romaine and Butter/bibb lettuce work really well for things like lettuce wraps. But it's not
something I would ever use in a salad when spring greens and arugula exist.
Wedge salad, lettuce cups for Larb, throwing at small unassuming children.
It sux.
The best for wedge w blue cheese or seven layer salad. Other than that, in typically choose other types because of higher nutritional value
It’s delicious and versatile. I love eating it as a cooked vegetable Chinese-style or slighted wilted in the microwave for a Japanese-style salad. Also the best lettuce
for sandwiches, tacos, and burritos.
Going to a burger place and getting it wrapped in iceberg rather than a bun sooo good. Buns at a fast food place are usually stale anyways so why not spice it up
a little. I have never attempted this with a homemade burger…just sayin.
I love iceberg lettuce use it all the time. I like it if it’s not to heavy when I’m picking one out , the leaves come of nice and easy because they are loose when you
get on that’s to heavy it’s not so easy. Good for salads, sandwiches or wrapping san choy bow.
I eat it and burp it 30 minutes later. Without fail.
Eh. Lettuce is lettuce. I have my preference, but I don't think any varieties have such a difference that they deserve special hate or praise.
It’s good on a turkey sandwich or a BLT. Otherwise, iceberg lettuce can fuck right off.
I despise it. I’ll happily eat any other lettuce or spinach, but iceberg is just gross.
Dude you could write a dissertation on this topic.
I’ve also heard that despite not being as dark green as other lettuces, iceberg still has nutritious photochemicals. I like the crunch and freshness in a chopped salad
or on a sandwich. Nothing quite like it!
Absolutely standing up and clapping for this comment. My dad, who eats iceberg lettuce like a juicy autumn apple, would be clapping as well.

As someone who typically uses bitter arugula as an ‘everyday’ lettuce, you have inspired me to buy a head of iceberg and let my imagination fly, knowing I have
such a palate cleanser by my side.
This may be the best post I have ever read. Definitely picking up some iceberg lettuce on the way home.
Best comment on reddit.. so smooth! I hope your talent of writing makes you a lot of money!
I am iceberg hater - but now I see it’s place in our good world. Thanks for the perspective
>Despite the inaccurate "it doesn't have nutritional value" mantra, it is a great ingredient.

Have to admit, if this is a myth, I have fallen for it. Please disabuse me! Especially since I've started hearing the same thing about romaine and I'm getting a little
fed up. Romaine is what they told us all to switch to when we were ditching iceburg!
This guy icebergs
You are 100% correct about salad construction, but I'd still never use iceberg to get that crunch when it brings nothing to the table in terms of flavor.
add to that, tacos and taco salads, and tostadas. Limit use, but irreplaceable in certain dishes, imo.
Wedge salad, is that what I'm doing when I slice up ahead of iceberg into wedges and dip them into whatever dressing I might have on hand. Then sometimes I'll
have two or three small bowls and eat a few different wedges while dipping in different bowls.???
Ok, I can't argue that. I think this may be the winner.
Up here we've got places using Cabbage in place of lettuce on burritos - and i find that's much better than lettuce.
Essential in burgers. Either shredded, or a cohesive slice.

In salads, I like the crunchier inner part, in 3/4 inch cubes. They must be cohesive and not just fall apart. Just a light vinaigrette.
I like using it for sloppy joes, the thing is I use hot dog buns for sloppy joes and I use a leaf of iceberg or two on the bottom and the sloppy joe on top as much
neater to eat and doesn't fall apart.
I like green leaf lettuce on burgers too.
Agree! Ssam everything in iceberg!
It's interesting because it makes you contemplate what is meant by "mild". Everyone says it's mild, but you immediately recognize it, even in quite small amounts.

It's true that it's tender, but it has a specific aroma, is a little bit bitter, and has a unique and impactful texture. Is it AMAZING in some dishes, but totally
inappropriate in others.
Mmm, a wedge of cold, crispy iceberg with crumpled bacon and bleu cheese dressing... yum!
What lettuce do you prefer on sandwiches? I don't think there's one that can provide the same crunch as icerberg
Yeah, just because it isn't *as* nutrient dense as darker greens, or similar vegetables doesn't mean it doesn't have any.
The FDA an acceptable source?

If so, [they have a chart with comparison of several common veggies](https://www.fda.gov/food/food-labeling-nutrition/nutrition-information-raw-vegetables).

Potassium is the only one that's significant, but all the usual minerals, and a handful of vitamins are present, just at a low concentration. The profile in terms of
what's present is the bog standard "leafy green".

There was (and is) the idea that we should only be eating the most nutrient dense choices, and that's a problem. Not so much for health, nutrient density is
awesome as long as everything is balanced. But for supply and growing. When a food becomes trendy because of any reason, you increase monculuture growing
to match the demand, this decreases diversity in availability.

Plus, a lot of nutrient dense foods can have more calories, and less fiber than varieties in the same general category. While neither is going to be a major factor in
most people's diet at the levels in most fires foods, it is for specific needs.

Romaine is no worse than iceberg for density. Same basic leafy green profile. Just not as dense as kale or whatever current "super" green is popular.
I often make a slaw of some sort to put on my tacos, but I also love the basic meat/lettuce/cheese combo
That sounds like a perfect intersection of functional and tasty.
Ooo I've never added this myself, but that looks exactly like the stuff some of the local burger joints used. I'd always assumed it was Romaine.
Yep I agree with this. It's flavor is mild but easily recognizable. It's not going to dominate other flavors but it certainly isn't appropriate for others. Where it shines, it
really shines
Fresh Romaine works on sandwiches.

Mild is an interesting way to put it. I never really thought about it much before, but I do agree, it tastes like lettuce. It's certainly distinct. Something that doesn't
come from other places. I also agree, where it goes, it really goes well, esp. shredded.
All that kneading. Double proofing. Shaping. Flour everywhere. Hours of time.

I bought a giant package of yeast that will probably die in my cupboard.
I have loved baking bread since I was a little kid. I think part of the problem is all of the videos and current information out there telling you how complex and tedious
it has to be. Also people thing that it isn’t worth making bread if it isn’t going to be completely perfect. Once you take a more relaxed approach it is a lot of fun.
People post the most ridiculous things on the sourdough subreddit about getting stressed when their loaves don’t have the perfect “crumb” and some of that shit
just makes me laugh. I make sourdough and other breads all the time and they barely require that much work, and they come out tasting pretty good even though
they might not be picture perfect. This is definitely a rant but cooking is a lot more fun when you are relaxed about it.
Baking isn't for everyone. For years I insisted it was best left to specialists, but the pandemic and the steady upward creep of prices for decent bread (now north of
$6-7 a loaf in my rapidly gentrifying town) encouraged me to give it a shot.

I haven't gone Full Artisan, but I have a no-knead bread recipe I'm happy with that I make about twice a week. The total labour involved for each loaf is 5min or less.

So YMMV based on technique and what you're wanting to get out of it.
No knead bread? Its a thing:)
One of the things you get better at the more bread you make is how to avoid making a huge mess. Me and my bf make bread all the time, and we barely think about
the mess anymore. Some tips: don't use individual measuring implements. Use a scale with a tare function and measure flour and salt into one bowl, and yeast,
water, and fat into the main mixing bowl. Rinse the flour bowl with COLD water and then re-use that for bulk fermentation.

I cannot stress enough how much of a headache you save by rinsing raw flour with cold water. Hot water makes it into dough and it becomes a nightmare. Cold
water, it just disappears.
You need to know about no-knead bread. Takes 24 hours to make but you're only involved in it for maybe five minutes., and you don't need to exert much muscle.
If you don't enjoy the art of baking then I definitely wouldn't recommend making your own bread
This is why I only cook flatbreads. They're so underrated as they come together in 20 minutes and no yeast. Don't know why the Instagram & YouTube crowd
ignore them.
Store your yeast in the fridge and it will last longer.

I like making things that I can't get good ones locally (bagels), that I can have exactly how I like (English muffins), and that are better just made (steamed buns).
I am The Laziest Baker in the World. Breadmaking can definitely be fun and not at all tedious. Here's my oh-so-difficult process:

After my morning coffee, I feed my sourdough starter that I keep in the fridge. Then I gather my other ingredients: white flour, whole wheat flour, kosher salt, water,
and any optionals like powdered milk, an egg, olive oil, flax seeds, etc.

An hour later, I measure out the starter I need and dump it in my breadmaker, followed by everything else. I set it to "dough," and go amuse myself elsewhere for an
hour and a half.

When the breadmaker beeps, I dump the dough onto my floured countertop. Using a silicon bench/bowl scraper, I lift and stretch and fold one side of the dough
onto the other. Repeat a bunch of times (maybe 8?) until the dough is a less-sticky blob, and toss it in a greased bowl. Cover, and walk away for another hour.

Repeat this stretching and folding twice more, with an hour in between each time. (In the meantime, I'm either doing laundry or making breakfast or lunch, napping,
going for the mail, or just browsing Reddit.)

An hour after the last stretch and fold, I dump the dough on the still-floured counter again (because why bother cleaning it off every time, right?), divide it in two,
shape into two tight balls, squeeze all the seams shut, plop them in greased casserole dishes, cover with plastic wrap, and put them in the fridge. Leave overnight.
They shouldn't rise, but hey, sometimes they do.

Next morning (or afternoon, or even the next day), I take them out. If they rose overnight in the fridge, I put them straight into the cold oven (no plastic wrap) and set
it to 450F. If they need to rise, I leave them on the counter for 1-2 hours and then put them in the cold oven. (If you stick your finger into the dough and the hole
slowly fills back in, it needs more rising time.) I sprinkle the tops with rice flour and slash fancy designs into the top with a razor, but it really only needs one good
slash to help the dough "spring" evenly with the high oven heat. My bread usually takes about 45 minutes from the time it goes in the cold oven. Let cool completely
before slicing.

Ta da! Over a day and a half, I maybe spent 30 minutes total on actually "making" bread!
Put the yeast in the freezer. It will last practically forever while you decide what you want to do with the rest of it.

If you have a stand mixer, you can give Japanese milk bread a try. I've found it to be extremely forgiving, and very much an "everyone in the pool / set it and forget
it" recipe, especially if you have instant yeast (because instant yeast does not need to be activated beforehand).

There are a million recipes for Japanese milk bread out there. My suggestions for how to make them easier are:

* If you have instant yeast, ignore what the recipe says about activating it first; just dump it into the bowl with all of the other dry ingredients.
* Ignore what the recipe might say about keeping the yeast away from salt (so as to avoid killing the yeast). Just dump everything in and give it a quick stir.
* No need to take the butter out to soften ahead of time. Just cut it into thin slices or small pieces and scatter them in the mixing bowl. The friction of the mixing is
more than enough to soften the butter and incorporate it.
* Use a clear container to do your first proof. Give it a thin coat of oil, drop your dough in, flatten the surface as best you can, cover. Use a marker or rubber band to
mark the height that would be "double in size" and just leave the container somewhere you'll be able to see it as you go about your business.
* I use a silicone mat when I work with dough. I don't need as much flour. I can tip any excess flour into the trash bin. And I can wash it in the sink.
* If you don't have an appropriate sized loaf pan, make rolls/buns instead. Divide the dough into 6-8 pieces, make them round, put them on a sheet tray or pan, let
them double, bake about 14 minutes at 350F.
I actually love baking bread and have experimented this year with different methods and agree- mad respect for bakers!
I think it’s like anything else, the more you do it, the less difficult it becomes. It’s a ton of prep and waiting but the rewards are pretty awesome.
Bread machine! Awesome invention!
There's definitely a graph of effort vs value. Making focaccia is low effort and high value, making sandwich bread is high effort and low value.
In the pastry world there is a huge divide between the bread bakers and the pastry chefs.

Bread baking is a lot more like cooking, there is more feel to it and changes made on the fly. Pastry chefs weigh to the .01 gram and do not like conditions changing
day after day.

Don’t feel bad if it’s not your thing!
I enjoy bread making myself and all those tedious things are not tedious to me.

There are no knead style breads. I made a focaccia recipe from King Arthur baking that had no kneading, double proofing or shaping. My family liked it.

https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/blitz-bread-no-fuss-focaccia-recipe

You could buy a bread machine and just dump your ingredients in. The machine does everything and you get bread. I had a bread machine for a long time. The one
I had you could also use a dough setting so you could get the dough out to make stuff like pizza or cinnamon rolls.
Making dough, especially for pizza, is a passion of mine. I love the smell, the way the dough feels in my hands, I feel like a kid every time I do it lol.
Baking is an art and science. I got handed the reins at work to do the desserts in July. My first few cakes were a bit rough, I made a huge mess, chocolate and flour
everywhere and on everything. Fast forward three months and now I crank out six at a time with five drips on the counter and I’m clean. It’s all about repetition.
Bread is it’s own separate animal and can be fiddly. Try some desserts, cookies or brownies are fun and usually a one bowl operation. Anything that comes in a box
probably has cheaper ingredients but they’re fine to learn with. You can also make pizza dough and freeze it. That about as basic a recipe there is. It makes a fine
Italian bread too.
I got you.

[No-Time bread](https://www.thekitchn.com/easier-no-knead-bread-in-a-hurry-40653#post-recipe-11764) is the answer. No kneading at all if you have a stand
mixer, no need to plan ahead to let your dough rise, and I’ve never shaped a loaf at all. They come out of the Dutch Oven beautiful all on their own. Bread purists
will no doubt find these shortcuts offensive, but I’ve used this recipe many times in a pinch and visitors are always impressed!
Yeast actually lasts forever. I bought a pound of it about 12 years back, sitting in as corner of a fridge. Spent about 2/3rd over the years. Shifted to 6 different
houses in various cities. It still works well for the occasional baking.

I rarely bake regular bread nowadays. But pizza, focaccia, and naan are fairly easy. You can try that.
>I bought a giant package of yeast that will probably die in my cupboard.

Put it in an airtight container and freeze it. Don't let it go to waste, and you never know when you'll need some. Yeast is precious.

However,

>All that kneading. Double proofing. Shaping. Flour everywhere. Hours of time.

I agree. I tried many many times in the past, and now I just limit myself to making flatbreads and pizzas; loaves and baguettes, I just get from the bakery. There's a
reason why bakeries and bakers exist, and it's to save you the trouble and provide you with something you couldn't make as well due to time, lack of the required
equipment, etc.
Why are you baking bread if you hate it?
Ive enjoyed experimenting with bread over the last year or so. Its definitely a big learning curve though
Oh yes. I still suck at baking bread. I’ve tried to master white sandwich bread for weeks and it always comes out wrong. I can cook almost anything, but baking
remains a mystery for me.
You can make yeasted waffle with those leftover yeast. I like the recipe from the King Arthur Flour. Just make the night before & have a nice waffle the next day,
and the next day.
I’d wager that there are more recipes for great breads that don’t require kneading than those that do. And even more for shaping. And even some where you don’t
need more than a single bowl.

Also, the best part about kneading bread: a stand mixer. Let it do all the work and by the time it’s done you can have the dishes clean and workstation ready for
proofing.
There are lots of really easy receips that don't involve complicated shaping and long periods of kneading. No-knead bread for example is pretty much idiot-proof
and you don't really need to shape it if you don't care what it looks like. I just plop it in the dutch oven and if it's a little wonky, who cares, I'm not operating a
boulangerie.

I also make a sandwich bread using [this recipe](https://www.abreaducation.com/content/lesson1-first-loaf) that has really minimal kneading and effort overall.

I mean if you don't like it that's also okay, just noting there are recipes out there that don't involve too many difficult steps or sweating over your dough. Most of the
time even if you mess something up it's still edible, it's bread.
Start with pizza dough. Even if you screw it up, you will end up with pizza (of some sort ...)
Baking bread is one of the funnest things you can do in the kitchen.
There is a lot of quicker and easier things to make that will use up the yeast without leading to hours of work and time waiting for it to rise. You can take kneading
out of the picture with a stand mixer and dough hook or a bread machine. And if you have room in your fridge and some time there are a lot that you can just do the
second rise overnight and bake them in the morning (plus fresh cinnamon rolls for breakfast). If you need to use up some yeast and are okay with a little bit of
shaping I would recommend pretzel bites, they are definitely worth the little bit of effort that they take.
Wait, Yeast dies?
Bread machine makes it so much easier.
You can try a no-knead bread, you still need to proof overnight but there is almost no hands on work besides mixing the ingredients.
Once you cook something like Japanese Milk Bread you'll understand why baking at home is so worth it, or Japanese milk brioche buns!
Grab a bread machine. Throw everything in, when it beeps shape it. Half an hour later throw it in the oven.
[Irish soda bread](https://www.ballymaloe.ie/recipe/white-soda-bread). No kneading. In fact, it actively HATES being kneaded. Makes it worse. Just mix and pop in
the oven.

Great hot out of the oven with melting butter and chilled smoked salmon.
Bread is the thing I would most enjoy homemade that I simply won't make. Too much work and too inconsistent of a result. :(
To each their own, of course. I *love* making bread. I love all the kneading, the punching down the dough, etc. It's one of the most fun things you can do in the
kitchen imo. The biggest thing is it takes time to rise, but that's hands off so I don't mind.
I hate baking of any kind. It is weird because I adore cooking, but I won't even make a pizza dough. It is like something in my brain turns off when you have to do
anything that involves making a dough/batter.
I have made bread since I was very young- it's one of my earliest memories of the kitchen- but I can see that it's not for everyone. Especially if all you want is
something like what you'd get in the store.

If you ever want to give it another shot, try the King Arthur Flour English Muffin Bread recipe a try. Dump everything in a mixer with a paddle attachment (no dough
hook!) or into a bowl. Mix. Dump into greased pan, wait 30 minutes, and bake. No knead, no proof, no shape. Mix, rise, bake. Easier than refrigerator cookies.

Alternatively, you could take that yeast and start brewing mead...
Plus that amazing bread slicing machine!
Get a breadmaker. It's not as good as "homemade", but it's easier and better than store bought.
This belongs on r/unpopularopinion.
May I introduce you to the concept of no knead bread. Mix ingredients, leave overnight to rise, pop in oven, enjoy. I can’t help you with flour, the glitter of cooking
but this type of bread is easy, yummy and less of a hassle than kneaded bread.
This artisan bread takes 5 minutes to throw together in a bowl, 3 hours to proof, and 42 minutes to bake in a preferred Dutch oven at 450F. It's the easiest recipe I
know - not just for bread, for ANYTHING (except maybe PBJ sandwiches).

https://www.recipetineats.com/easy-yeast-bread-recipe-no-knead/

If you like a softer crust, remove the lid to the Dutch oven and cover with a warm damp towel immediately for about 15 min.

I learned how to bake bread during the pandemic, and this is now on our menu twice a week. And you can add all kinds of things in before you pop it into the oven!
We're partial to roasted garlic and shredded Gouda.

Hope you like it!
I understand your sentiment, but I really enjoy the process.
Consider visiting r/prisonhooch for alternate yeast usage. It should last much longer if stored in your frig or freezer.
I make banana bread, does that count? No kneading involved :) But it is more like a cake than bread... but still delicious!
no-knead bread. It's a game changer.

It still takes time, but most of that is just wait time.

I've got a primer on it on my website, I'll put a link in the Content Round-Up post...
I made exactly one loaf of sourdough before I decided people don’t charge enough money for bread
Bakeries use larger mixers, to knead the bread, but still I know what you mean. I grew peppers, and watered by hand everyday. I got a few pounds of peppers from
them the crop. Dried them, got two ounces of powder peppers powder. Make you appreciation the stuff on the shelf.
Bon Appetit has a good no knead focaccia recipe https://www.bonappetit.com/recipe/easy-no-knead-focaccia it takes a while but not too much actually work. You
can do it!!!
I don't mind it, but I do mind the mess it makes having to slice it; my bread is only really good for toast, and what I most hate is when the 2nd half of the loaf goes
mouldy, which is a real problem of home-made bread IME.
I feel the same way about making pie crust lol. I’ll make the pie fillings from scratch all day every day but the crusts are so tricky, it’s much easier to just use a store
bought one
That might be because you don’t cook bread, you bake it. Cooking and baking are two completely different things.
I feel the same way. I avoided baking bread for years because of the attitude of perfection that I thought was required to make it. It's really a forgiving thing
ingredient wise to make I find. (I almost always fiddle with the sugar component to see how it affects the texture if at all)
Yeah, I mix the yeast with warm water, wait 15min, mix in flour, some seeds until it's homogeneous and 'makes bubbles'. Shape it. wait 90min, bake 60min at 200C.
Done.

It doesn't always turn out amazing, but it's consistently good.
Yep. I make the most basic ass white sandwich bread that I found on AllRecipes, it's insanely easy, and people STILL rave about how amazing it is because
everyone loves fresh bread.
Agree so much. Most of the time my sourdough doesn"t come out perfect, but it still ends up delicious. Even my very first loaf which was far from what it is
supposed to be was pretty good.
I gues some people find the complicated stuff enjoyable, but you can definitely make good bread doing the bare minimum.
I’m one of those people, and I’m definitely having fun with my high level of stress surrounding sourdough. Some people enjoy the challenge of shooting for
something that’s *perfect* and some people don’t.
> Also people thing that it isn’t worth making bread if it isn’t going to be completely perfect.

> some of that shit just makes me laugh

The idea that making from scratch > store bought is an idea that a lot of cooks (hell, I'd argue that it's the majority) believe and is their primary motivation to cook,
and the same expectations simply carry over for baking. Why spend hours baking bread and not have it come out perfect if a store bought bread will actually *be*
perfect? Well, if you don't live hours away from a decent bakery at least. And not to mention, stressing about something is actually the road to improvement.

The mindset that you are describing isn't as unreasonable as you make it out to be, there's no reason for the ridicule.
"Cooking is a lot.more fun when relaxed". It also helps you've been doing it since you were a child.
I agree. Mastering sourdough was stressful until one day it just clicked. I can do everything totally by feel and it happens almost automatically. Now i love it.
would you be willing to post the recipe you use? this sounds nice
Idk either but im happy about it. The price of anything popular social media people get ahold of skyrockets
I've never had luck with them puffing. What recipe do you use?
Chef John from Food wish dot com has a great pita bread recipe
This. Making bread doesn't have to be a big production. It's a side task that you weave in and out of your day. Recipes make it sound like a rigid process with steps
fixed at exact intervals; the reality is much more flexible.

On the other hand, if you _really_ don't enjoy it, you _don't_ have to do it.
Even if you don't have a mixer you can make Japanese milk bread, it'll just kill your hands :))
Bread machines are so awesome, <5 mins of actual work for lovely fresh bread. Also really good for making pizza dough
I got one as a gift about 12 years ago, and I LOVE IT.

Sometimes I bake it right in the machine, sometimes I take it out and make baguettes or whole grain dinner rolls, and like u/tebla said, it makes fantastic pizza and
focaccia dough.
i second this, bread machines make amazing bread and usually aren’t bank-breakingly expensive. definitely a worthy purchase for someone who wants
homemade/fresh bread but doesn’t like the time or effort that goes into the “traditional” way.
> sandwich bread is high effort and low value

If you're talking about sandwich bread in a loaf pan, that's one of the easiest things you could possibly make. Because of the pan, it's less important to get gluten
developed than say a country loaf (however you should still develop *some* gluten), and it relies heavily other ingredients to improve texture and flavor (for
example, butter or oil in a loaf will prevent your bread from drying out). As long as you don't overproof (and even if you do, you probably could punch your dough
down and start again) or don't have dead yeast, you're good. Personally I think one of the hardest breads to make are something like ciabatta, where the dough is
so dang wet and sticky and there are a lot of key moments of the recipe where things can go wrong (e.g. flipping the shaped ciabatta onto your launching board). I
also personally struggled for the longest time shaping my country loaves correctly such that there was plenty of tension to give the loaves some height.
Try Joshua Weissman supermarket sandwich loaf. He’s on YouTube. Perfect every time.
Also sourdough is a lot easier and more forgiving than most people think. And u can get a starter from a local bakery which is what I have done a couple times
instead of starting my own.
>And not to mention, stressing about something is actually the road to improvement.

Eh, I don't think that's true. Being non-apathetic is the road to improvement, sure, caring is, absolutely. But there's a level of stressing that's unnecessary and
harmful and just ruins the fun of the activity (and in doing so can often block the road to improvement by removing motivation!). Sometimes it can be a hard balance
to strike, certainly, but sometimes you can look at a person or a post and just go "why are you worrying about this as much as you are? Just chill out a little"
Definitely! I just use Jim Lahey's legendary no-knead technique. It takes a little time, but very little work. You can mix the dough before you go to bed and bake in
the morning; that's what I usually do.

3 easy steps:

— mix the ingredients, then cover & rest for 12-18 hours
— transfer to a proofing bowl, cover & rest for 2 hours
— bake for half an hour with the lid on, then 15min with the lid off

https://leitesculinaria.com/99521/recipes-jim-laheys-no-knead-bread.html
Try this one https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/skillet-flatbreads-recipe
so true, measure, dump, and press a button. Mine has a quick setting and I can get a loaf of fresh bread in under 2 hours, without ever having to touch the dough.
Yeah you're right, I do agree. I'd rephrase what I said and say that stress is an important byproduct in the road of improvement.

As you said, it's all about that balance. My philosophy is that it's impossible to achieve 0% stress on anything you care about (especially if it's not going right). I
think keeping it at a manageable level is really the way to go.
This is the thing for you to try, OP. I've been making this no-knead Dutch oven bread since about 2006. It's a game changer. Makes you feel like a bad-ass.
Thanks
Pretty much. The first time I tried it, I was like "no way, I'm an artisanal baker now?????"

blanche some potato cubes, dry well, then fry in duck fat til crispy = heaven!
Popcorn. :-)
Roast potato’s for sure
Fried eggs!
I concur. Definitely something fried potato related!
Oooh ok! I like making popcorn, I hadn’t thought of that.
Definitely on the list
(Had to repost from r/askCulinary since I am probably not just insane, but stupid as well)

I've had this phenomena happen disturbingly often, especially now after I've harvested my different cherry tomatoes but no one I've talked to so far has agreed.

Are my taste buds wack?

&#x200B;

Edit:


The tomato tastes like tomato, the coffee tastes like coffee, but the combined aftertaste is very ... salami
The internet is wild because someone on another side of the planet can type something and then I’ll try a cherry tomato with coffee.
No, not for me. I eat a pint of cherry tomatoes every day and drink a pot of coffee and it never taste like salami. For me, it tastes like chocolate covered cherries.
Just wild.
It's possible tomatoes have a lot of msg.
Dude i know exactly what you mean and i get this weird stuff a lot with other combinations
> [Each flavor was totally unique, but combine one flavor with another and something new was created.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rLXYILcRoPQ)
Never in a million years would I have thought to combine those two items in my mouth at the same time.

However, did you know that chocolate buttercream frosting and spinach combined tastes like Buffalo wings? Try it sometime!
If I eat peanut butter, and then drink coffee (so one after the other, not together in my mouth), it tastes like tobacco.
Gonna try this brb

Update: no salami :(
I haven't tried that particular combination, but I can kinda see how that'd work with a darker roast. I love how coffee interacts with the flavors of other things, whether
it's the coffee pulling new flavors from whatever it's paired with, or the food/alcohol bringing up different notes in the coffee.
It does! You're not the only one, I've tasted it too.

What prompted you to eat cherry tomatoes with coffee?
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar OP
I don’t drink coffee, but sometimes when my husband makes his coffee, I swear it smells exactly like canned tuna. Not all the time, so it must just be certain
brands/roasts. I googled it once, and I’m not alone. So they must share some chemical compound. What you’re experiencing might be similar.
I did not know that...but one turn deserves another.

A double decker (UK chocolate) is much better eaten upside down (it not you)
Have you had covid recently?

Sodas suddenly have a weird musty flavor to me which I can also smell in the outside world occasionally.
not sure that question is right for this sub either
That is the entire purpose of the Internet.
Haha, you're welcome! Noticed anything... salami?
I think salami tastes like chocolate covered cherries.
You're all fucking delusional, it tastes like Alaskan haddock with a side of creamed spinach
What kind of coffee then? I drink **dark** roasts and currently chewing heartbreaker tomatoes
Tomatoes have a lot of *glutamic acid*. MSG is only one source of glutamic acid and tomatoes do not contain the sodium component.
Great, I am not alone in my insanity! But it's pretty wild right?
Yeah, weird taste combinations can result in nice things - like caviar and white chocolate. Thought that maybe I stumbled into this new cool taste combo.
I can get that, black coffee right?
Yes! Similarly, a lot of tobacco smells like peanut butter with the coffee bitter notes to me.
Aww, bummer.

Was it dark roasted coffee?

Also I slurp sometimes, maybe that's needed?
Yass, we're three now!
I am overridden by a plentiful harvest of cherry tomatoes, so I just eat them like snacks whenever, and well coffee is another one of my drugs...
You're saying there's salami in my coffee?
Yessss

It 100% smells like fish sometimes. Might be related!
Nah, this has been bugging me for years but I also forget about it 2 seconds after realising it tastes like this... It's just today I remembered to ask reddit.
You better not try and cream my spinach you reprobate!
Black coffee or any dairy in it?
Unless you salt them, of course. Which you definitely should be doing.
Superwild!! You're definitely not alone, in fact I'm surprised everyone else on the thread is as confused as they are lol
Yes, black coffee!
Thank god, I've been saying this for years but everyone thinks I'm crazy. Tobacco DOES smell like peanut butter!
Yeah it was dark roast made in a French press, with regular cherry tomatoes
Didn't even reflect an that, today it was oatly barista edition, but I do beliove it works with black since that's my usual thing
You're saying I should eat salted tomatoes with my coffee? I'll try tomorrow!
Technically still no. In solution salts dissociate. If you dissolve MSG (or tomatoes and salt) in solute you get sodium cations and glutamate, not MSG
Yeah. I think this is even more prevalent when drinking out of a thermos as well. When it's the last out of that canister, a little muddy... Oh boy that brings back the
memories of the morning after ash tray mouth.
For sure, especially when it's in the process of being smoked! Some of the nice stuff that I've seen start off smelling like raisins or rum though, but once they get lit it
smells like peanut butter, coffee, hay sometimes, and the really nice ones still have that hint of whatever they originally smelled like.
Hmm, maybe its just me then (*or a select few*)
Okay I don't know how much disposable income you have and want to be spending on oatmilk, but dude you should try the Chobani oatmilk if you like oatmilk at all.
For me it's not that bad, it is just very weird.
Haha, well I try all the milk alternatives I come by, but never heard of Chobani, might not be available over here. Usually I buy the cheapest possible option since
nowadays I truly enjoy the flavour and the cheaper options usually tastes much more oat and sweeter than oatly.
My thermos is 15 years old and heavily used... Could be that as well haha.
I have a jar full of Sichuan peppercorns. I've made a few Sichuan dishes with them but I'm also curious and looking for inspiration for any other uses or recipes that
use this spice. If anyone knows and can share, it would be appreciated
They show up in Himalayan cooking a lot — Tibetan, Nepali, Bhutanese. You'll also find a variety called "sansho" in Korean and Japanese cooking.
Here’s a post from serious eats that might interest you: https://www.seriouseats.com/sichuan-peppercorn-recipes

A lot of them are inside Sichuan (I could be wrong but I think it’s just Sichuan not Sichuanese) cuisine but there’s some that sounded interesting.
I make Red oil (veg oil infused with szechuan peppercorn and dried chilis) and i find it really good with nonchinese cooking. Ive panseared steaks in it, drizzled it on
roast potatoes, i even made mayo with it.
I fill about 10% of my pepper grinder with Sichuan peppercorns.
My wife made some really disgusting sichuan peppercorn chocolate cookies. I do not recommend.
Fried chicken or chicken wings with Sichuan peppercorn are godly
I toast them and then put them in an empty pepper-grinder and will put them on all kinds of things. Pizza? Yes. Creamy Pasta? Yes. Sandwich? Sometimes.
Cereal? No. Stir-fried chicken? Yes. Mexican? Yes.

The flavor is a bit lemony, with that tingle, and it goes well with other spices. So most things that can use some spicyness can use some sichuan peppercorns.
Probably not quite what you're looking for, but they're used liberally in other parts of China as well. They're an ingredient in five spice, you can sprinkle some in your
red braised pork, etc.

For the most part however, when used in the context of other Chinese cuisines the tingling sensation is avoided rather than sought after. The molecule that causes
the tingling sensation is oil soluble, so if you ever want *just* the floral fragrance of the peppercorns without the numbing, you can steep the peppercorns in hot,
boiled water for ~30 minutes... strain, then use the water. Really helps balance spicy things - in the context of western cooking, I've used that liquid in Chili con
Carne and in blended hot sauces.

To give you something a bit more actionable though, there's a seasoning mix for Guizhou Fried Chili Chips ( ) that's also pretty awesome on popcorn: 1 tbsp
Sichuan peppercorns ( ), ½ tbsp fennel seed ( ), 1 tsp salt, ½ tbsp sugar, ½ tbsp MSG ( ). Grind all those up *super* fine, sprinkle on the popcorn at the end of
cooking.
Try making bar nuts / spiced peanuts with a spice mix that has Sichuan peppercorn!
I'm not sure where you are located and if you have access to squid, but sichuan pepper and chili salt squid is an easy and delicious recipe.

Also, spicy peach and mango chutney. Beautiful with ham!
Make a mix with some other peppercorn and/or whole spices and throw it in a grinder and just use it on whatever. I have a mix of szechuan, black pepper, green
pepper, pink pepper, and coriander that I found at the store a while ago that I use in place of black pepper now and then
Jhol momo is one of my favorite recentish food discoveries.
> “sansho” in Korean and Japanese cooking.

Ah I guess that’s where the name for the compound that is responsible for the numbing tingliness comes from (hydroxy alpha sanshool)
&#x200B;

Nice link. Thanks for posting it.
Yup definitely made this too, a lot of Sichuan dishes call for some sort of hot oil. It’s so good on pizza!
This is smart, I should try that sometime
> I do not recommend.

Well now I’m just curious
> Probably not quite what you’re looking for

Bro any answer from you is much appreciated! I’ve learned so much from your videos and posts. Thank you!
> that’s also pretty awesome on popcorn

That definitely sounds tasty, I’ll have to try that now thanks!
I made some ginger cookies with sichuan and cooking caramel. They were pretty great, you can’t use too much sichuan though otherwise it tastes a bit soapy. Also
I thought it was Szechuan, are they two different things? Haha
> Szechuan

They’re the same. Apparently the spelling “Sichuan” is more common on the west coast of the US, and “Szechuan” on the east coast.

I made a cookie recipe for the first time and inadvertently halved the amount of flour. The cookies were incredible - lacy and thin, and a small scoop of batter spread
into these gigantic hand-sized cookies that hit so many textural notes.

I followed the same recipe a second time and apparently didn’t make the same mistake - the cookies were also great, but completely different - more substantial
and they didn’t spread nearly as much.

Honestly I like both versions equally. It’s true that baking is a science, but that doesn’t mean every change is a failure, you just get a different result.
Adding a sprinkle of sugar instead of salt to my bolognese sauce (20+ years ago). Game changer!

What started as a mishap in my mum's kitchen has continued over the years. I don't add a lot; only a level teaspoon for a large pan (around 8 generous portions),
but it makes a noticeable difference.
My parmesan went bad and didn't realise until most of the way through cooking/prepping for my pasta carbonara. Had ghost pepper cheese and said fuck it, and
threw it in with eggs and bacon. It came out creamy and the spiciness really made for an incredible dish. Not authentic by any means but it's how I make it now.
When I accidentally let my Brussels sprouts char a little.
Char is good
Hi guys, I'm looking for a housewarming present for my friend who just bought his first house and likes to cook. His creations are pretty hit or miss but he enjoys
making them. He also as a lot of the basics already (pots, utensils, knifes, blender - I'm not a pro chef so this is just what I've seen in his apartment )

Have you given any cheffy gifts in the past that have gone over really well? Thanks in advanced!

Edit: budget is around $100!
Ideas:

* A good knife steel or knife stropping kit
* A very fancy wood cooking spoon
* silicone gloves/mitts
* nice pepper mill
* instant read thermometer
This might sound crazy, but have you thought about getting your friend nice gourmet ingredients of some kind? I'm a little odd and like to pick out my gear by
myself, so I'd very much prefer someone gift me a really incredible side of fish or heirloom vegetables or high quality cut of beef.

Bonus, they might cook it for you!
People are saying a good knife. I wouldn't do that. Knives are a very personal choice.

If your friend likes mushrooms, you can buy a mushroom growing kit that takes very little effort. You basically unbox it, add water and in a short time, you have fresh
mushrooms.
Some highend cooking ingredients might go over well: like Balsamic Vinegar, specialty soy sauces, good olive oil, saffron, the super-fancy pasta that's imported
from Italy, really toothy and like $12/lb (Rustichella d'Abruzzo is good for this). If they bake, vanilla is insanely expensive right now, so some real vanilla (beans or
extract) would be appreciated. Nielsen-Massey is a good producer, and so is Penzey's.

Anything made of olivewood is nice both beautiful and functional. If they like pasta, you can get them an Atlas pasta rolling machine (and maybe throw in a
cookbook too).

Sur La Table has a pretty good sale going on right now (and it looks like it's through today only), where you can get some nice Staub enamled cast iron stuff for
around $100 ([like this oval baker](https://www.surlatable.com/bker-ovl-135-cvd-mw-ds/PRO-4637823.html?cgid=cat2211269)).
https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08227CF83/ref=cm_sw_r_apan_glt_fabc_1ZJFF1GKMX2FE5T8HN6F?_encoding=UTF8&psc=1
What's your budget?
Things that wear out can be nice. Rubber spatulas, kitchen towels, and hot pads come to mind, but there are others. If your friend likes aprons, a new one with a
seasonal or a housewarming theme might be fun.
Woks are affordable at Asian markets. Think cutting boards, doesn’t have to be fancy just enough to save counters
[Ice cream maker](https://www.amazon.com/Cuisinart-ICE-21-Quart-Frozen-Yogurt-Ice/dp/B003KYSLMW/ref=sr_1_3?
crid=39IXDE8S232JV&dchild=1&keywords=cuisinart+ice+cream+maker&qid=1632860153&sprefix=cuisinart+ice+cream+%2Caps%2C229&sr=8-3)

I've gifted this twice and talked about 6 people into buying one. No one has been disappointed!
A badass Wok is essential for every kitchen, but they're sorta pricey, like $100+
A good knife.
A good Dutch oven
Penzys gift card.
recipe book?
A quality whetstone to keep their knives sharp
Cast iron pan, no grates or grill, flat bottom. They also make hot pads that go over the handles that makes them much easier to use.

Food processor.

Mandolin.

A garlic squeezer. Cheap and easy way to improve dishes and save time.

Crock pot

Cutting board. Probably the most used thing when cooking. If its the only thing you decide to get you could a custom one or a good quality one that’s unique.

Toaster oven as a higher dollar item. Convection as a bonus. I personally use mine more than the regular oven.
If you aren’t fully sure, maybe a gift card to Williams Sonoma or Bed Bath and Beyond (or any place of the like) would be nice.
Some ideas: a food processor if he doesn't have one already; cleaver (Shi Ba Zi Zuo makes good ones for around $50); immersion blender; cast iron pan; silpat; a
cooking accessory for a dish or style of food he especially likes - e.g. pizza stone, wok, paella pan; The Food Lab
$70 (when I bought mine) from bbb. Comes with a recharging stand. Oh, and peppercorns n salt to grind. Love mine!
Sous vide
Very high end Balsamic vinegar - something that is traditional, DOP, and aged at least 12 years.
If there is anything left in the budget, you can get some other vinegars - like an aged sherry vinegar.
A dinner out?
Different types of salt. Bonus is to include info on what you'd use the different salts for on a note card for each.
Have you noticed what kind of cutting board they have? I would shit my pants if someone gave me a high quality, wood or bamboo cutting board. Just make sure it
has little rubber feet on the bottom so it doesn't slide around their counter.
The phrase "amateur chef" is weird looking. It's like "amateur dentist" or "amateur architect" or something.
A cooked meal always sounds good           along the same lines, I was looking at some gourmet spice racks as well. Maybe spices and super nice beef. Hmm…
This is exactly what I was thinking!
Super creative! Love this idea.
I agree with this. Most chef-y people are kinda picky about gear and utensils. So unless you’re going to straight up ask him what/which model I wouldn’t. Think like
those gift baskets around the holidays, but actually filled with high quality things. Like vinegars/oils, a bag of 2 of high quality pasta, maybe a couple fancy spice
blends from penzy’s or similar brand.
a good food processor or immersion blender is nice, too.
Around $100 would be good!
This might end up being a “neat” gift but unused for an amateur. More of a specialty item. I think the type of stove comes into play as most electric stoves dont
output enough heat for proper wok cooking.
I like the sound of that! Do you know a particular brand or material that’s best?
If you break it down, sure.

I prefer the term home cook.
Nice spices are always a good gift. My mother-in-law gets me gourmet spices from Savory Spice for Christmas. It’s fun trying them out on various meals.
I second this. Also, most home stoves are not equipped to handle woks, so OP’s friend would likely have to buy a wok ring just to use it on a stove that likely doesn’t
have the necessary firepower.

OP, a nice, large wooden cutting board would be a great gift! Also, a bottle of mineral oil (formulated for culinary use) to keep the board from drying out.
I like Boos, but they can be pretty pricey.

I also like bamboo because it doesn't stain or absorb smells as readily, has a little bit of natural bacteria build up resistance and is kinder to your knives than really
hard wood blocks. Also bamboo boards tend to be cheaper because the material cost is a lot lower.
Hey everyone! No matter where you are, this is probably a pretty stressful time. We're putting together this thread as a place for you to share resources, recipes,
updates, experiences, commiseration, and anything related to the COVID-19 pandemic. We've already assembled some resources for you!

Big things:

• Wash your hands and practice social distancing. Read the CDC's tips on all this: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/prevention.html

• Cook fresh foods first. If you have stocked up on nonperishables, try to save them for when you have run out of fresh ingredients. Eat all your leftovers, too!

 • Take caution when going out. If you must go out (for instance, to buy groceries), exercise extreme caution -- don't touch anything, maintain 6 feet of distance from
other people, and wear gloves while picking up anything. The virus is known to survive on hard surfaces for hours to days, so please wipe down any packaging
before bringing it into your house, especially if you live with anyone in an at-risk demographic. Alternatively: look into getting them delivered -- there's a bit of a delay
for some stores but it may be your best option.

• If you don't have enough food, especially if you have young children, look into any local schools or public agencies that are offering meals in your area.

Cooking Resources:

• https://www.treehugger.com/green-food/pandemic-pantry-basics-how-eat-well-humble-ingredients.html

• https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/voraciously/wp/2020/03/15/how-to-cook-for-and-with-your-kids-during-the-extended-coronavirus-school-closures/

 • https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/voraciously/wp/2020/03/05/heres-how-padma-lakshmi-and-other-expert-cooks-say-you-should-stock-your-pantry-for-a-
coronavirus-quarantine/

• https://www.sfchronicle.com/recipes/article/6-recipes-to-cook-from-the-pantry-during-the-15132707.php

• https://www.npr.org/2020/03/14/815916438/coronavirus-meal-planning

• https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19_support/comments/flnnwp/under_50_nonperishable_pantry_shopping_list/

Support Resources:

• https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/managing-stress-anxiety.html

• https://adaa.org/finding-help/coronavirus-anxiety-helpful-resources

• https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/opinion/sunday/anxiety-treatment-therapy.html?searchResultPosition=4

• https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19_support/

• https://www.montereybayaquarium.org/animals/live-cams/ (this is not a support resource but who can argue with watching baby penguins?)

If you are experiencing excessive anxiety in this time, and just need someone to talk to, feel free to send me (u/viscous_crescendo) a message! I can't guarantee I'll
get back to you right away, but (as a fellow anxiety sufferer) rest assured you won't be alone in feeling a tad overwhelmed.

Keep your head on straight and listen to the doctors. We'll make it through this soon enough!

Please keep things civil and provide sources for any information about COVID (hearsay is discouraged; deliberate disinformation is bannable). Links, videos, blog
posts, images, etc. are all allowed here -- megathread rules apply. We're not going to bite your heads off if you post about COVID elsewhere in the subreddit, but
please try to quarantine discussion to this thread.
About the gloves, just don't use as a substitute for washing your hands. This is one thing that I really don't wear myself except might consider on public transit
(which I avoid with a passion these days) and would throw away immediately after exiting.
[*Cooking 099*](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPvJlKzXARvXGiv22SGakoA) is the friend who gets down on all fours so you can step up onto their back to
reach the cookbook on the upper shelf. (Grab me a cookie while you're up there, please.) It's a series that explains the "pre-basics" of cooking for the folks who are
so intimidated by cooking that they would be overwhelmed by the average cooking channel. It's a gateway channel, as it were. I don't teach recipes, I teach how to
understand and execute recipes. It's fun to watch, too! I'm a video director by trade so it has some decent production value and I'm a reformed sketch comedy
writer so you can tell I had fun making it.
[Super Bowl Chicken Wings ](https://youtu.be/4hhBtG1tqHk)

Ingredients

•10 lbs. chicken wings

•2 tbsp. salt

•2 tbsp. pepper

•2 tbsp. onion powder plus and additional ½ tsp for wing sauce

•2 tbsp. garlic powder plus and additional ½ tsp for wing sauce

•2 tbsp. chili powder

•2 tbsp. paprika

•2 tbsp. lemon pepper seasoning plus and additional 1 ½ tsp for wing sauce

•4 oz. butter

•½ cup hot sauce

Directions
Season your chicken wings with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, and lemon pepper seasoning. Heat up your cooking oil and drop in
your wings for 10-15 minutes depending on your level of crispiness. Pull wings and let drain of oil. For the sauce add butter to a sauce pan and melt over medium
heat. Add hot sauce, onion powder, garlic powder and lemon pepper seasoning. Continue to mix until sauce comes to a low boil 30 seconds to 1 min. Remove from
heat and pour over wings and toss.
[Ube Oreo Milkshake!](https://youtu.be/xvtHncXSNvo) \- I've been experimenting and thought some of you might enjoy this, if not it's still a reminder that milkshakes
are easy to make :)

(Ube = purple yam)

&#x200B;

Ingredients:

• \~300mL Milk

• 4 scoops of Vanilla Ice cream

• 2 teaspoons Ube Extract

• 5 crushed Oreos + 1 crushed Oreo for topping

Optional: Shredded coconut rim = maple syrup + shredded coconut

&#x200B;

Instructions:

1. In a blender combine all the ingredients. I blended on low for 15 seconds and that worked out for me.

Optional: If you want the shredded coconut rim, dip the glass you'll be using in a shallow dish of maple syrup, then dip it in a shallow dish of shredded coconut. It
should stick right away.

&#x200B;

Enjoy!
[Creamy Lemon Garlic Bacon Wrapped Scallops with Squash Noodles](https://youtu.be/bxPsXfrxTkA)

Ingredients

•1 lb. bacon wrapped scallops

•¾ cup heavy whipping cream

•¼ cup chicken stock

2 oz. butter

•2 tbsp. olive oil

•4 cloves garlic

•2 tbsp. lemon juice

•salt to taste

•pepper to taste

•parsley to garnish

•optional garnish with cajun seasoning

Directions
If you need to defrost your bacon wrapped scallops. Place in the air fryer season with salt and pepper cook on air fryer mode 39medium high heat. Chop up the
cloves of garlic and add to the pan.0 degrees for 10 mins. Flip half way through. Remove from the air fryer and set to the side. To make the sauce add butter and
olive oil to the pan over and heat over medium high heat. chop up the garlic and add to the pan and cook for 20-30 seconds. Once they start to brown add the
chicken stock and lemon juice to the pan. Stir until it comes to a boil add in the heavy whipping cream and bacon wrapped scallops. The sauce will continue to
thicken, combine and cook for 2 minutes season with salt, pepper and parsley. Remove the scallops from the sauce and add in the squash noodles and coat with
sauce for cook for another 2 minutes and serve. garnish with parsley.
My father's Sunday tomato sauce recipe. We made this video in quarantine. I'm sure it's not as good as your nonna's, but whose is?

[How to Make Tomato Sauce - A Traditional Homemade Sunday Tomato Sauce Recipe for Pasta and Pizza](https://youtu.be/uXDkeVZ1Zpc)

He goes over the ingredients and teaches you some great techniques...including how to eyeball and cook by feel like a real paisan. It uses some great non-
perishables and goes well with store bought pasta or pizza dough if you're on a budget right now.

Bon appetito!
Hi guys, I made a [Starbucks White Chocolate Mocha](https://youtu.be/HTydpBP0tdU) at home and thought I’d share the recipe with everyone here as so many of
us are stuck at home during lockdowns or quarantine.
[Valentine's Day Charcuterie Board](https://youtu.be/0GJjc43s0m0)
Ingredients

•12-16 slices Pepperoni

•3-4 slices Turkey

•3-4 slices Ham

•6-8 slices Salami

•3 stocks Celery

•½-⅔ cup Baby Carrot

•½-⅔ cup Broccoli Florets

•½-⅔ cup Cheese Cubes

•2 Jalapeno

•6-8 Strawberries

Directions
No cooking involved. Just rinse off your broccoli, carrots and celery. Slice if needed and line your board or tray with all your ingredients.
[Brown Sugar Glazed Ham ](https://youtu.be/ygfNYGPSEcY)

Ingredients

•6-8 lb. Ham

•4 oz. Butter

•3 tbsp. Sugar Free Syrup

•¼ cup Stevia

•2 tbsp. Golden Monk Fruit Sweetener

•2 tbsp. Swerve Brown Sugar Substitute

•1 tsp Cinnamon

•½ tsp Nutmeg

•½ tsp Allspice

•½ tsp Vanilla Extract

Directions
Pat the ham dry with paper towels and cut a cross pattern all over the ham 1/2 inch deep. Place Ham in the oven at 350 degrees for 30 mins.
In a sauce pan add butter, syrup, stevia, monk fruit, brown sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice and vanilla extract. Heat all ingredients over medium heat. Once the
sauce starts to simmer remove from heat. Take the glaze and baste ham every 20 mins until it reaches an internal temp of at least 140. I removed the ham at 145
and it cooked for 2 hours. Once out of the oven let rest for at least 20 mins then slice and serve.
Hey guys ​♀️I made the [Starbucks Iced White Chocolate Mocha](https://youtu.be/FuZYGs5Uz7o) at home! Each cup will be less than $1 and the overall recipe will
take less than 15 minutes the first time and 2 minutes each time after that once you’ve prepared your sauce! The full recipe, ingredients and equipment list is in the
description area of the video!
[Japanese Omelette roll (Tamagoyaki)](https://youtu.be/NujYBOTxyn0)

***Ingredients***

* 2 eggs
* 1/2 teaspoon of soy sauce
* 1/2 teaspoon of sweet sake
* 1 teaspoon of sugar
* A dash of salt
* 1 teaspoon of cooking oil

***Instructions***

1. Put two eggs in a bowl
2. Add 1/2 teaspoon of soy sauce
3. Add 1/2 teaspoon of sweet sake
4. Add 1 teaspoon of sugar
5. Add a dash of salt
6. Pour some cooking oil onto the pan so the eggs won't stick
7. Fold the Omelette as shown in video
8. Repeat the process 2 more times
9. Finally cut the egg into parts
[White chocolate Mocha Sauce](https://youtu.be/SZ39JBGySAg)

White chocolate mocha sauce is used in many Starbucks drinks and tastes absolutely amazing!

Downside is:
1. Costs way too much (roughly $80/2L)
2. Not readily available in every store!

My solution: learn to make it at home with only 6 ingredients and in 10 minutes time!

Serving Size: 25

Ingredients:
600mL Sweetened Condensed Milk
1+3/4 cup Evaporated Milk
3/4 cup Sugar
1 tbsp Vanilla
1 tsp Instant Espresso Powder
3/4 cup White Chocolate

Equipment:
Pan
Measuring Cups/Spoons
Spatula
Mason Jar (something to store sauce in)

Steps:
1. Add 600mL sweetened condensed milk, 1+3/4 cup evaporated milk, 3/4 cup sugar and 1 tbsp vanilla to pan and turn on heat to medium. Allow this to start
simmering.
2. Add 3/4 cup white chocolate and mix till all melted.
3. Add in 1 tsp instant espresso powder and mix in thoroughly.
4. Remove from heat and allow to cool for 20 minutes. Mix every few minutes so white chocolate stays dissolved.
5. Store in a container and put away in fridge.
6. Enjoy with your coffees or ice creams!

Don’t forget to like, comment and subscribe!

Thank you for watching!

#whitechocolatemochasauce #howtomakewhitechocolatemochasauce # #homemadewhitechocolatemochasauce #starbucksdrink #diystarbucksdrinks
#tiktokstarbucksdrink #tiktokdrink
[Brown Sugar Butter Asparagus](https://youtu.be/sRvwj7bsh8A)

Ingredients

•1-2 bunches of Asparagus

•4 oz. Butter

•1 tbsp. Olive Oil

•½ tsp Salt

•½ tsp Pepper

•1 tbsp. Stevia

•1 tbsp. Brown Sugar Substitute Swerve

•1½ tsp. Golden Monk fruit Sweetener

Directions
Chop off the 1 inch of the stems of the asparagus.
Add butter and olive oil to a skillet over medium heat.
Add asparagus season with salt and pepper.
Once butter has melted add stevia, monk fruit sweetener and brown sugar and continue cooking the asparagus moving it around in the brown sugar butter to coat
all sides of the asparagus and cook for 5-7 minutes.
Remove from pan and enjoy.
(you will have a lot of sauce left over feel free to save it to drizzle over other items.)
I've just made a quick video on how to chop an onion. Will do one on how to cook rice as well as this seems to be a frequently asked question.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0vD8t84F8g&feature=youtu.be](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0vD8t84F8g&feature=youtu.be)
[Guacamole Quesadilla Burger](https://youtu.be/VOFWDQ4Qk44)

Ingredients

•2 lbs. of ground beef

•2 tsp salt

•1 tbsp. all purpose seasoning

optional

•jalapenos


Guacamole
•1-2 avocado

•1/4 cup red onion

•1/2 cup tomato

•1 jalapeno

•1/2 cup cilantro

•2 tbsp. lime juice

•salt to taste

•tortillas

•1/4 cup cheddar cheese

Directions
Season the ground beef with salt and all purpose seasoning. Mix together and form your burger patties. To a cold cast iron skillet place the hamburgers in to the
skillet and cook over medium high heat for 4-5 mins flip and continue cooking for another 2-3 minutes. (Your cooking time may be shorter, mine took a bit longer
due to the very large pan I was using that wasn't able to get enough heat coverage from the flame)

For the guacamole slice the avocado in half and remove the seed. Scoop out the inside of the avocado into a large bowl. Add in the chopped veggies red onions,
tomato, jalapeno and cilantro. Add lime juice and salt to taste.

To make your burger place a low carb tortilla shell down in your skillet to heat for 30 sec - 1 min. Flip and add cheese, a spoonful of guacamole and top with the
burger. Fold the edges in a circular pattern to close the quesadilla. Heat on both sides until the shell is crisp and brown 30 sec per side and enjoy. Cooking spray
may help with browning shell.
I just found out about King Auther baking has a website with a bunch of FREE crazy good recipes. i made morning buns off there and it blew my mind how easy
and good it was
[Japanese Curry](https://youtu.be/rp245GcdH2o)

**Ingredients**

Pork 100g

Onion 1/2

Potato 2

Carrot 1/2

Water 400ml

Curry roux 2 pieces

&#x200B;

**Instructions**

1. Slice half onion into pieces

2. Slice carrot into pieces

3. Slice 2 potatoes into pieces

4. Add a dash of cooking oil

5. Add 100g of pork

6. Add onions

7. Add carrots

8. Add potatoes

9. Add 400ml of water

10. Skim the foam from the surface

11. Add curry roux when potatoes become soft

12. Stir well
[Grilled Chicken Salad ](https://youtu.be/OToZFRpedxg)
Ingredients

•1 bunch of romaine lettuce

•½ cup yellow onion

•½ cup tomato

•1 cup cucumber

•2 chicken breast

•2 jalapenos

•½ cup broccoli florets

•½ cup baby carrots

•2 tsp black pepper

•¼ cup of shredded cheese

Chicken Breast

•½ tsp salt

•½ tsp pepper

•½ tsp garlic powder

•½ tsp chili powder


Directions
Add the chicken to a pan and season with salt, pepper, garlic and chili powder. Cook over medium heat covered for 8-10 mins flipping halfway. Remove from heat
and let rest while you chop the veggies. Rough chop the romaine lettuce and wash to clean the leaves, chop of the veggies, onion, tomato and cucumbers. After
washing the lettuce and chopping up the veggies and chicken. Layer the lettuce, onion, tomato, cucumbers, broccoli, carrots and pepper. Toss to mix all
ingredients. Top with cheese, jalapenos and chicken. Pour your favorite salad dressing over top.
[Cauliflower and Bok Choy Stir Fry
](https://youtu.be/I_J-oc4Fpe4)

Ingredients

•1 head of cauliflower

•2 cups of bok choy

•2 tbsp olive oil

•2 tsp ground ginger

•1 tbs soy sauce

•1 tsp sesame oil

•1 ½ tsp sesame seeds

•2 tbs stevia sugar substitute

•1 tsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•green onions to garnish

Directions
If using fresh cauliflower core the cauliflower and chop the florets up into bite size pieces. Also half or quarter the bok choy. Place the cauliflower into a dry wok over
high heat and cook the cauliflower for 2-3 minutes stirring constantly. A lot of water will release out of the cauliflower. Drain the water from the wok and then add in
the bok choy. Add olive oil, salt and pepper and continue to cook for 60 seconds mixing continuously. Season with ginger, soy sauce, sesame oil sesame seeds
and stevia sugar substitute. Mix and continue cooking for 2-3 minutes Once the veggies are softened to your liking remove from heat and serve.
Hey guys, I made some [Tandoori Chicken](https://youtu.be/NMyawL7UjQU) if anyone is interested! The first time I had this dish, I was a kid and loved the
explosion of flavours!
[Egg in a hole](https://youtu.be/kiH7D2LwRlc)

Ingredients

•1 Slice of Bread (L'oven Fresh Zero Net Carb Bread)

•1 Egg

•2 tbsp Avocado or guacamole

•½ tsp everything bagel seasoning

•pinch of salt

•pinch of pepper

•pinch of red pepper flakes

Directions
Take your slice of bread and cut a circular hole out of the middle with a cookie cutter or a glass. Heat your skillet to medium heat and place your bread down in the
pan. Crack open the egg and place it right in the middle of the bread. Season with salt, pepper and red pepper flakes. Heat the bread for 2 minutes and flip once
the egg is secure and connected to the bread and doesn't fall out while flipping. If you want your egg sunny side up do not flip just continue to cook on one side. Flip
and cook for another 2 minutes. Remove from pan and spread with avocado slices or guacamole top with everything bagel seasoning and enjoy.
[Zucchini and Squash Mini Pizzas
](https://youtu.be/jxuC5O3hmuk)

Ingredients

•1 zucchini

•1 squash

•1 cup pizza sauce

•1 cup mozzarella and cheddar cheese

•15-20 slices of pepperoni

•1-2 jalapenos

•1 tbsp Italian seasoning

Directions
Slice your zucchini and squash 1/4 inch thick and place them on a baking tray lined in aluminum foil sprayed with cooking spray. Spoon a teaspoon of pizza sauce
on each slice and top with the mixture of mozzarella and cheddar cheese. Add chopped pepperoni and jalapenos and sprinkle Italian seasoning over top. Place in a
preheated oven under the broiler for 5-7 minutes until cheese has melted and browned in spots.
[Low Carb Oatmeal](https://youtu.be/5iWqzpdrDm4)

Ingredients

•3 tbsp almond flour

•1 tbsp coconut flour

•1 tsp flax seed

•1 tbsp monk fruit sweetener

•1 tsp chia seed

•½ to ¾ cup water (depending onbyour level of thickness)

optional

•1 tsp psyllium husk

•pat of butter

•⅛ cup mini blueberries

In a bowl combine almond flour, coconut flour, flaxseed, monk fruit sweetener, and chia seeds to a bowl combine and mix all dry ingredents. Add in boiling water
mix well and let sit for 5 minutes to thicken up. Enjoy.
I make real easy yummy stuff. Check out my vids. Will be posting more soon. Super easy stuff. MasterChef Australia contestants from 2019 if that means anything
to you :)

https://youtu.be/iq3-pXHzqhQ
[Blueberry Scones](https://youtu.be/IcttU_3RiDk)

Ingredients

•1 ½ cup almond flour

•⅓ cup coconut flour

•⅓ cup stevia

•1 ½ tsp baking powder

•1 tsp psyllium husk

•⅓ cup heavy whipping cream

•2 eggs

•3 tbsp olive oil

•1 tsp vanilla extract

•¾ - 1 cup blueberries

topping

•1 tbsp butter

•2 tsp stevia

•½ tsp cinnamon

•½ tsp nutmeg

Directions
Add the almond flour, coconut flour, stevia, baking powder, and psyllium husk to a bowl and mix to remove any lumps. Add in heavy whipping cream, eggs, olive oil,
and vanilla extract and mix to combine. Next, add in blueberries and gently mix them together. To a baking sheet spread dough and form with hands to a rectangle
shape add any loose blueberries to the dough. Combine butter, stevia, cinnamon, and nutmeg and spread over top of the dough, and bake in the oven at 350
degrees for 20-25 minutes. Remove from the oven and cut into your desired shape.
Hello guys!

Please check this article that I made:

Crispy Shredded Chicken

https://kitchenwareuk.co.uk/blog/how-to-make-crispy-shredded-chicken-at-home

Please let me see the pictures if you've done them! Best for beginner & broke college students!
[Weekly Meal Prep](https://youtu.be/Ol_77MGAFaI)

Ingredients

Chicken

•2 5lb chickens

•4 oz Tony Chachere Jalapeno Butter Marinade

•2 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 All Purpose Seasoning


Pork Chops

•3 lbs thick cut Pork Chops

•1 1/2 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Jerk Seasoning

•1 1/2 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 BBQ Rub


Cauliflower Mac and Cheese

•48 oz cauliflower

•8 oz cream cheese

•1/2 cup sour cream

•4 oz butter

•3 tbsp heavy whipping cream

•2 tsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•2 tsp onion powder

•2 tsp garlic powder

•2 tsp chili powder
•2 tsp paprika

•2 tsp yellow mustard

•1 1/2 cup mozzarella cheese

•1 1/2 cup cheddar cheese


Asparagus

•2 bunches of jumbo asparagus

•2 tsp olive oil

•1 tsp salt

•1 tsp pepper

•1 tsp onion powder

•1 tsp garlic powder

•1/2 tsp lemon pepper seasoning

•1 tsp Italian seasoning


•2 bunches of asparagus

•4 oz butter

•1/2 tsp salt

•1/2 tsp pepper

•1/4 cup stevia

•1 tbs golden monk fruit sweetener


Directions
Chicken
Inject the chicken with marinade and season with cooking with thatown2 seasonings. Cover the entire chicken inside and out as well as under the skin. Place in the
oven at 350 degrees for 75 minutes until the internal temp reaches 165 degrees.

Pork Chops
Season with Cooking With Thatown2 Jerk and BBQ Seasonings. Rub seasonings on all sides of the pork chops and place in the air fryer at 390 degrees for 15-18
minutes depending on the thickness flipping halfway.

Cauliflower Mac and Cheese
Cook the cauliflower until fork tender we steamed the cauliflower in the microwave for 10 minutes. Placed in a large bowl and added the softened cream cheese,
sour cream, melted butter, heavy whipping cream, salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, yellow mustard as well as mozzarella and
cheddar cheeses and mix all together to combine. Poured all ingredients into a greased baking dish and topped with additional cheeses. Baked in the oven at 350
degrees for an hour.

Jumbo Asparagus
Wash asparagus and cut off 1/2 inch from the stem. Season with olive oil, salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, lemon pepper and Italian seasoning. Mix all
together and bake in the oven at 350 for 15 minutes.

Sweet Asparagus
Wash asparagus and cut off 1/2 inch from the stem. In a skillet over medium heat add butter, once melted add asparagus. Season with salt, pepper, stevia and
monk fruit sweetener. cook for 5-7 minutes tossing frequently in butter sauce and remove from the pan.
Hi Reddit! My name is Colin and I have a new cooking show where I \*attempt\* to make recipes for the first time, and often don't get it quite right. As a fellow
beginner, this seemed like fertile ground to share and meet fellow aspiring cooks. All comments and feedback are welcome. Thanks so much!

Site: [www.noobgourmet.com](https://www.noobgourmet.com/)

YT Channel: [https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz8aTkpR9xoVK62FyZBO6Pg](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCz8aTkpR9xoVK62FyZBO6Pg)
[Blackened Western Style Ribs](https://youtu.be/qU7da9h0rc8)

Ingredients

•3 lbs Western Style Ribs

•1 tbsp Cooking With Thatown Curry Powder

•1 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Cajun Blackening Seasoning

Directions
Season the Western Style Ribs with curry powder and cajun blackening seasoning. Rub the seasoning all over the ribs and place in the air fryer on Air Fry Mode or
at 390 degrees for 20 minutes flipping halfway at the 10 min mark. Remove from the air fryer and let rest for at least 10 minutes. Enjoy.
[Spam Onigiri](https://youtu.be/gs74Umj4mOg)

**Ingredient**

Cucumber 1/5

Tomato 1

Quail egg 2

Spam 4.5 slices

Tonkatsu sauce(Japanese brown sauce) dash

Mayonnaise dash

Cooked Rice

Salt dash

Pepper dash

Butter dash

&#x200B;

**Instructions**

1. Cut cucumber

2. Cut tomatoes

3. Fry quail eggs

4. Cut spam into slices

5. Use a knife to carve out the shape

6. Add cooking oil

7. Fry the spam

8. Put some butter on the already cooked rice

9. Add a dash of salt

10. Add a dash of pepper

11. Mix well

12. Wrap the rice and shape the rice into a ball as shown

13. Put the spam in the rice

14. Add some tonkatsu sauce(Japanese brown sauce)

15. Add some mayonnaise

16. Put the egg on the spam

17. Place tiny square shaped seaweed onto the spam

18. Place seaweed on the spam, this time rectangular shape

19. Add circle shaped seaweed for the eyes

20. Now place a round shaped cheese as shown onto the spam

21. Add seaweed for the nose

22. Place both round hams for the cheeks

23. Add cheese for the ears

24. Add cucumbers and tomatoes
Baked Mac and Cheese. The recipe is in the description. Here is something that is quick, easy and cheap

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2ayhVTgCOQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b2ayhVTgCOQ)
[Thai Peanut Zucchini Noodles](https://youtu.be/dSnaxBOy8rU)

Ingredients

•2 zucchini

•1 cup green cabbage

•½ cup red cabbage

•¼ cup carrot

•½ cup green bell pepper

•⅓ cup peanut butter or almond butter

•1 ½ tbsp soy sauce or liquid aminos

•1 ½ tbsp sugar free syrup

•⅛ tsp sesame oil

•2 tsp rice vinegar

•2 cloves garlic

•2 tsp ground ginger

•1 tsp chili paste

•1 tsp siracha

•2 tbsp salt

Directions

Use your vegetable spiralizer to make the zucchini noodles.
Add salt to the noodles mix together and place napkins over top of them and a weighted bowl and let sit for 20 mins to allow the liquid to release from the noodles.
After 20 mins remove the bowl and squeeze noodles to remove all liquid. While you are waiting on the zucchini noodles, finely chop the cabbage, carrots and green
bell peppers or use a bag of prepared coleslaw. Also make the peanut sauce, to a bowl add peanut butter, soy sauce, syrup, sesame oil, rice vinegar, garlic, ginger,
chili paste, and siracha to a bowl and whisk well (if too thick add a teaspoon of water at a time to thin out the sauce). In a skillet add olive oil and green cabbage,
red cabbage, carrots and green bell peppers, and saute for 2 mins. Add in zucchini noodles and saute for another 2 minutes. Once out of the pan add to a bowl and
lightly toss with peanut sauce and enjoy.
[Cucumber Tomato Salad ](https://youtu.be/BeNxY7GCN24)

Ingredients

•2 large cucumber

•3 roma tomato

•½ green bell pepper

•½ onion

•½ cup olive oil

•¼ cup white wine vinegar

•2 tbsp dijon mustard

•¼ tsp salt

•½ tsp pepper

•½ tsp oregano

•½ tsp basil

•½ tsp mint

•2 tsp lemon juice

In a bowl add olive oil, vinegar, mustard, salt, pepper, oregano, basil, mint and lemon juice. Whisk together until well combined and set to the side. Rough chop the
cucumbers, tomatoes, bell peppers and onions and toss together sprinkle additional oregano on top. When ready to serve pour sauce over cucumber salad and let
the flavors combine for at least 15-20 mins before serving.
I shared some basic chicken and potatoes with my buddy the other night and he was blown away by how good they were. He's a college student and doesn't cook
for himself much so instead of making him feel kinda dumb I guess I made him [this]
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BrCwNfOcTLa67WMbGYnZGIvn50N6XSZUS88xcVK5Cvs/edit?fbclid=IwAR2d-
LlfT9ICsS9bwXaO51Xa6YIqCMxh0hR_daq9GL9pPBrfflxcHFDG_uY). It's a super basic recipe step by step and these steps can be applied to many different things
for anyone wondering. I was hoping to make a post out of this to maybe help some people out but I read the rules and came here :P This isn't a self promotion, I just
figured that maybe this amateur recipe could help some other amateurs learn a thing or two they may not have known. A big thing I had to learn when cooking was
constant temperature control as to not burn things and I made sure to emphasize that in the recipe.
[Grilled Cream Cheese and Spinach Stuffed Salmon](https://youtu.be/gon7gbvkBHE)

Ingredients

•2 lbs salmon

•2 tsp olive oil

•1 tbsp jerk seasoning

•4 oz cream cheese

•⅛ - ¼ cup mozzarella cheese

•2 cloves garlic

•1 cup of spinach

•2 tsp dill

•1 tsp capers

•½ tsp onion powder

•½ tsp salt

•½ tsp pepper

•¼ tsp crushed red peppers

Directions
To make the filling for the salmon to a bowl add your softened creamed cheese, mozzarella cheese, garlic, spinach, dill, capers, onion powder, salt, pepper and
crushed red peppers and mix until well combined. Take your salmon and cut slits/pockets in the middle of the salmon and stuff the salmon with the cream cheese
mixture. Coat the salmon with olive oil and brush over top of salmon then cover with jerk seasoning. Place on grill at 400 degrees cooked for 10 mins skin side
down then flipped and cooked for another 6-8 minutes until the internal temp reached 145 degrees. Remove from the grill and let rest for 10 mins before serving.
[Egg White Bites](https://youtu.be/l_CR_otnEiA)

Ingredients

•32 oz Egg Whites

•1 Roma tomato

•1 cup spinach

•½ cup chicken

•½ jalapeno

•¼ cup green onions

•¼ cup cilantro

•½ cup ground beef

•¼ cup mozzarella cheese

•¼ cup cheddar cheese

•2 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 Lemon Garlic Seasoning

•2 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 All Purpose No Salt Seasoning

Directions
Prep and chop your veggies. To a bowl add tomato, spinach, chicken, jalapenos, green onions, cilantro, ground beef, mozzarella cheese, cheddar cheese, and
seasonings to a bowl and mix. Fill a greased muffin pan ½ full with filling, next pour in the egg whites almost to the brim of each muffin cup. Place the muffins in the
oven at 350 for 35 mins. To make sure muffins are done you can poke with a knife or toothpick once it comes out clean they are done.
[Ramen](https://youtu.be/mvH2J3Ef02g)

**Instructions**

Add 60cc(4 tablespoons) of soy sauce

Add 1 tablespoon of sake

Add 1 tablespoon of mirin(sweet sake)

Add 1/2 teaspoon of salt

Add 6 pieces of dried sardines (if they are big then 3 is enough)

Bring it to a boil

Put the sauce aside for later use

Add 600ml of water

Add 3g of Konbu(kelp)

Take Konbu out before the water boils

Boil the water

Stop the fire Add 15g of Katsuobushi(a handful of bonito flakes)

Strain the Katsuobushi(bonito flakes)

Put the soup aside for later use

Boil ramen noodles

Pour the sauce that was made earlier

Pour the soup that was made earlier

Put the noodles into the bowl

Add seasoned bamboo shoots

Add roast pork

Add green onions

Add Naruto(fish paste)

Add seaweed
TikTok cooks are ones to watch for the best quarantine cuisine https://fiskalpolicy.org/2021/03/14/tiktok-is-the-future-of-cookery-shows-you-might-have-heard-it-
here-first/
[Yellow Pickled Radish](https://youtu.be/M1jgBvv18Pg)

Ingredients

•0.75 lb Yellow Pickled Radish

•1 tbsp crushed red Pepper Flakes

•1 tbsp Sesame Seeds

•1 tbsp Sesame Seed Oil

•1 tbsp Stevia

Directions
Slice the pickled radish in half and thinly slice them. Add to a bowl and season with crushed rep pepper flakes, sesame seeds, sesame seed oil and stevia. Mix all
ingredients together and let sit for at least 15 minutes. Mix again and enjoy.
[Jalapeno Popper Chaffle](https://youtu.be/E4BMZyErMpk)

Ingredients

•¼ cup Mozzarella Cheese or Cheddar Cheese

•1 Jalapeno

•2 tsp Cream Cheese

optional bacon bits


Directions
First, take the shredded cheese and spread it evenly around the bottom layer of the waffle maker. Once the cheese starts to melt add a layer of diced or sliced
jalapenos. Next, add some thin slices of cream cheese. Top with an additional layer of cheese and close the waffle maker and cook for 90 seconds to 2 minutes.
Until the top layer of cheese releases from the waffle maker. Take a knife or fork and scrape the outside of the chaffle to release it from the waffle maker and sit on
a paper towel to cool.
[Ribeye Steak and Roasted Broccoli](https://youtu.be/DNrLPx2SSs0)

Ingredients

•2 Ribeye Steaks

•1 tbsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•1 tsp onion powder

•1 tsp garlic powder

•12 oz Brocolli

•1 tsp salt

•1 tsp pepper

•½ tsp onion powder

•½ tsp garlic powder

Directions
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Season the steak with salt, pepper, onion powder and garlic powder. Sear steak over high heat for 3-4 minutes on one side. Flip
and place in the oven for 8-10 minutes until it reaches your internal temperature for your preferred level of doneness for the steak.
Take to frozen broccoli florets and place on a baking tray. Spray with cooking spray season with salt, pepper, onion powder and garlic powder place in the oven for
15-20 minutes on the edges crisp and brown up. Remove steak from the oven and et rest for 5 minutes.
[Blackberry Cake](https://youtu.be/2Arbo5_6ap4)

Ingredients

•1 ½ cups Almond Flour

•5 tbsp Stevia

•1 tsp Baking Powder

•2 Eggs

•2 tbsp Butter

•¼ cup Almond Milk

•1 tsp Lemon Juice

•1 cup Blackberries


Directions
In a large bowl mix all the dry ingredients almond flour, stevia and baking powder together and whisk. Next add the wet ingredients eggs, melted butter, almond milk,
lemon juice and blackberries and mix together. Once combined add to a greased cake pan and place in a preheated oven for 25 minutes at 350 degrees. Let cool
for 5-10 minutes and enjoy!
https://youtu.be/VXy-uM8N5MI[5 Min Puffpastry Pin Wheel's ](https://youtu.be/VXy-uM8N5MI) so easy to make and a good way to use up fruit if you feel like easy
baking with few ingredients.
I cook so much ever since the quarantine started in my country, that I actually decided to start a food blog :) Since I'm cooking all the time anyways, why not take
some pics and shoot some videos, right?

Here is my latest creation: [Easy To Make Baked Chicken Thighs With Onion Gravy](https://cookwewill.com/easy-to-make-baked-chicken-thighs-with-onion-gravy/)

And the video on youtube: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QrBT4X\_6\_vk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QrBT4X_6_vk)

[Jalapeno Cheese Shell Tacos ](https://youtu.be/AwzQI-li7mY)

Ingredients

•1/2 cup Cheddar Cheese

•1/2 cup Mozzarella Cheese

•1 Jalapeno


Directions
Heat your skillet over medium high heat add cooking spray if the pan is not nonstick. Layer the mozzarella and cheddar cheese in a circle pattern around the bottom
of the skillet and cook for 2 minutes once the edge starts to crisp up around the sides of the shell you can remove it from heat. Let cool for 2-3 minutes and start
assembling your taco.
[Salmon Patties](https://youtu.be/Pj8eJy5H42A)

Ingredients

•14 oz salmon

•1 cup frozen onions and bell peppers

•2 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 Cajun Blackening Seasoning

•¼ cup green onions

•½ cup almond flour

•½ cup parmesan cheese

•2 tbsp mayonnaise

•1 egg

•1 tsp salt

•1 tsp pepper

•1 tbsp lemon juice


Directions
Over medium high heat saute your onions and peppers for 1 minute to soften up remove from the pan and place in a large bowl. Add in the can of salmon drain the
juice from the can and (if you like remove the skin and bones from the salmon) add in chopped green onions, egg, mayonnaise, almond flour, parmesan cheese,
salt, pepper, and lemon juice and mix all ingredients together. Add a tablespoon of oil to a pan and over high heat add the salmon patties to the pan. Cooking on
medium high for 1 minute and then lower the heat to medium and cook for another 2 minutes. Check to see if you have a nice sear on that side of the salmon. You
may also see a nice crust forming around the edges of the patties. Flip the patties and cook for another 3 minutes. Then flip back over to the original side to cook
for another minute to cook out any liquid that may have formed on the top of the patty. Remove from the pan and let cool.
[Avocado Omelet](https://youtu.be/2siasGdFnVs)

Ingredients

•3 eggs

•splash of almond milk

•½ roma tomato

•⅛ cup green onions

•1 ½ tbs guacamole/avocado

•⅛ cup of cheddar cheese

•⅛ cup of mozzarella cheese

•½ tbs butter

•½ tsp salt

•½ tsp pepper


Directions
Add your eggs to a bowl add in chopped tomato, ⅓ of green onions, guacamole, salt and pepper then mix the eggs. To a skillet over medium heat add butter and
oil and pour in eggs. cook for 2-3 minutes and edges have set and you can flip the omelet over. Once flipped add cheese and the other ⅓ of the green onions and
cook for another minute. Fold the omelet over and cook for another minute and remove from heat. Garnish with remaining green onions and enjoy.

[Cheese Onigiri](https://youtu.be/MZH66ZTTFg8)

**Instructions**

Add 1 tablespoon of soy sauce onto the cooked rice(2 bowls)

Mix well Add some cheese Wrap it and shape it to a triangle

Add a dash of olive oil Fry them with medium heat

Lower the heat

Add 1 tablespoon of soy sauce

Add 1 tablespoon of sweet sake
[Vegan and Keto Meal Prep](https://youtu.be/KwMeCLjzVcs)

Ingredients
1 lb Firm Tofu
1 tbs arrowroot starch
1 tbs sesame oil
1 tbs soy sauce

Firecracker sauce
2 tbs Olive Oil
3 cloves of garlic chopped
10 oz bag of stir fry kit
1/4 cup hot sauce
2 tbsp. sriracha
1 tsp pepper
2 tsp ginger
1 tbsp. apple cider vinegar
1 tsp sesame oil
1 tbsp. soy sauce
1/4 cup of sugar substitute
6 Thai chilis

garnish with green onions and red pepper flakes

Open your package of tofu and chop up into cubes. Place your tofu on a plate lined with paper towels and add paper towel to the top of the tofu and place
something heavy over top of it and let sit for 10 mins to get as much liquid out of the tofu as possible. Place your tofu in a bowl and season with arrowroot flour 1 tbs
of sesame oil and soy sauce. Mix and place on a greased baking sheet. Bake in oven at 450 degrees for 20-25 mins flipping halfway.

In a pan over high heat add your olive oil and garlic. Sauté the garlic for 30 seconds and then add your packet of stir fry if it comes with sauce you can remove it.
Add your hot sauce, sriracha, ginger, pepper, apple cider vinegar, sesame oil, soy sauce and mix together for 1-2 mins. Then add your tofu from the oven and
combine. If you want the heat you can add the thai chilies at this time also and cook for another minute and serve.
[BBQ Meal Prep Vegan and Keto](https://youtu.be/SqFN_LH5LaA)

Grilled Tofu

•2 - 16 oz packages of firm tofu

•1 tbsp cooking with thatown2 cajun seasoning

•1 tbsp liquid aminos or soy sauce

•1 tbsp teriyaki marinade

Directions
Open the tofu packet and drain the liquid. Take the tofu and slice it up into your desired width. Place a napkin over the top and bottom of the tofu and add some
weight to the tofu to squeeze out as much liquid as possible for 15-20 mins. Once the liquid is removed from the tofu place the tofu in a plastic bag and season with
cajun seasoning, liquid aminos, and teriyaki marinade. Let marinate for at least 30 mins. Remove the tofu from the bag and place in the oven at 400 degrees for
15-20 mins to dry out and firm up and then you can place them on the grill. Grill over direct heat for 1-2 mins per side or indirect heat for 5-7 mins per side.
[Sausage Stuffed Chaffles](https://youtu.be/0XD4kcqKXhI)

Ingredients

•3 Eggs

•¼ cup Cheddar Cheese

•6-8 Sausage Patty

In a skillet over medium high heat brown up the sausage patties cook for 3 minutes per side or feel free to use microwavable sausage patties. Once the sausage
patties are cooked remove and set to the side to rest. If using a mini waffle maker spray with cooking spray and optional but sprinkle some cheese down on the
bottom of the waffle maker. spoon in a tablespoon of egg and cheese mixture. enough to cover the bottom of the waffle maker. Place the sausage patty in the
center of the waffle maker then pour another tablespoon of egg on top of the sausage patty enough to cover the patty. Close the lid and let cook for 2-3 minutes.
If using a silicone mold. add some oil down to the bottom of the pan and or spray your ring mold. Pour a tablespoon of egg in the bottom of the ring mold. Next, add
the sausage patty to the ring mold then fill the ring mold with enough egg to cover the sausage patty but don't overfill. Cook the egg for 3 minutes over medium
heat. Make sure that the egg is no longer runny and able to be flipped over. Flip the ring mold and cook the other side for an additional 1-2 minutes until the ring
mold releases easily.
[Coffee Cake Mug Cake](https://youtu.be/HQiurZJ-Lss)

Ingredients

•1 ½ tbsp almond flour

•1 ½ tbsp coconut flour

•½ tsp baking powder

•2 tbsp sugar substitute

•¼ tsp cinnamon

•¼ tsp nutmeg

•½ tsp cake batter extract

•1 egg

•2 tbsp almond milk

Streusel Topping

•1 tbsp almond flour

•½ tsp cinnamon

•¼ tsp nutmeg

•1 tsp sugar substitute

•1 tbsp almond butter

•1 tbsp almond milk

•⅛ tsp almond extract (optional)

Directions
In a bowl mix almond flour, coconut flour, baking powder, sugar substitute, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Next in another bowl mix egg, milk, and cake batter extract.
Once mixed combine the wet and dry ingredients until just mixed together. In a third bowl mix almond flour, cinnamon, nutmeg, sugar substitute, almond butter, milk
and almond extract together. Take your microwaveable cup and spray with cooking spray for easy release. spoon the cake batter mixture into the bottom of the cup,
then spoon the streusel topping on top of the cake and smooth out the top of the cake with the back of a spoon. Cook in the microwave for 90 seconds, Watch the
cake around the 50-60 second mark and make sure that the cake doesn't overflow the cup you are using. You may need to stop the microwave. Once the cake is
finished cooking remove it from the microwave and let rest until the glass cools. It may be very hot to the touch.
[Peanut Butter and Chocolate Coffee](https://youtu.be/ppKSlkw6ysU)

Ingredients

•1 tbsp instant coffee

•8-12 oz water

•3 tbs almond milk

•1 tsp powdered mct oil

•1 tbsp chocolate protein powder

•1 tbsp natural sugar free peanut butter or almond butter

•3-4 packets stevia

Directions
Boil the water for your coffee we used a 20 oz cup. In your blender cup add almond milk, powdered mct oil, chocolate protein powder, peanut butter/almond butter
and stevia. Combine all ingredients until mixed smoothly. Pour the mixture into your cup or mug that you will be drinking out of. Add the instant coffee and fill the cup
with water and mix. Feel free to add more flavor enhancers to your liking, almond butter, chocolate protein powder or stevia. (Note: I like to mix the protein powder
with cold liquids so that it does not clump together.)
[Asari Takikomi Gohan](https://youtu.be/2Ej0rFT78hk)

**Instructions**

Slice aburaage into pieces

Cut carrot into pieces

Slice green onion into pieces

Add the carrots into the rice pot (2 cups of rice)

Add aburaage into the pot

Add a bowl of asari clams into the pot

Add 3 tablespoons of cooking sake

Add 1 teaspoon of dashi powder

Add 2 tablespoons of soy sauce

Add 2 tablespoons of sweet sake

Add 360ml of water

Cook the rice

Finally add green onions
[Hotdog Stuffed Jalapenos](https://youtu.be/4jJSiCjt4rk)

Ingredients

•2 Extra Large Jalapenos

•2 Beef Hot Dog

•⅛ cup Cheddar Cheese

Directions
Cut the stem and tip off a large jalapeno and core the inside out trying not to break the shell. Stuff the hotdog inside the jalapeno and place in the air fryer on air
fryer mode which is 390 degrees for 10-12 minutes. Or until the hotdog is cooked and the jalapeno is softened. Top with cheddar cheese, preferred condiments and
enjoy!
[Chorizo Scrambled Eggs](https://youtu.be/hbovwsD5Z3U)

Ingredients

•9 oz. Beef Chorizo

•4 Eggs

•2 Roma Tomato

•1 Large Jalapeno

•¼ cup Cilantro

•½ cup Spinach

•¼ cup Mozzarella Cheese

•¼ cup Cheddar Cheese

•1 tbsp. butter

•1 tbsp. olive oil

•optional

•sour cream

•salsa

•guacamole

Directions
In a skillet over medium heat brown the chorizo for 4-5 minutes. In a second skillet add butter and olive oil to a pan over medium heat. Once melted add in the
tomatoes and saute for 2 minutes. Crack in 4 eggs and scramble for 1-2 minutes. Once the eggs are scrambled add in cook chorizo and combine with eggs. Top
with cilantro, spinach, and cheese and fold into eggs. Once the cheese is melted serve and enjoy.
[Jalapeno Strawberry Flavored Coffee (don't knock it til you try it lol)](https://youtu.be/rrVem18Tptg)

Ingredients

•2 strawberries

•¼ jalapeno

•2 tbsp almond milk

•12-16 oz of coffee

•1 tbsp silk heavy whipping cream

•3 packets of stevia sugar substitute (to taste)

Directions
In a blender cup add strawberries, jalapeno and almond milk. Blend all ingredients together until smooth about 15 seconds. In your cup add your brewed coffee,
heavy whipping cream, jalapeno strawberry puree and stevia sugar substitue. Mix all ingredients together and enjoy.
[Almond Flour Crusted Tilapia and Cauliflower Mashed Potatoes](https://youtu.be/TdtUTVzRJ7c)

Ingredients

•4-6 pieces of Tilapia

•1 tbsp Lemon Garlic Seasoning

•1 tbsp Olive Oil

•2 tbsp Almond Flour

•2 tbsp Parmesan Cheese


•24 oz Cauliflower Florets

•2 oz Cream Cheese

•2 oz. Unsalted Butter

•1 tsp Salt

•1 tsp Black Pepper

•1 tsp Garlic Powder

•1 tbsp Parmesan Cheese

•2 tbsp Almond Milk

Directions
Season the tilapia with olive oil and lemon garlic seasoning. Rub the seasoning into the fish, then coat it with almond flour and parmesan cheese. Coat the fish with
breading and sear on medium high for 2-3 minutes on the first side and 1-2 minutes on the second side. Remove from the pan and drain oil on paper towels.

Place the cauliflower florets in the microwave and steam. for 5-7 minutes until cooked and soft. Place in a bowl and season with cream cheese, butter, salt, pepper,
garlic powder, parmesan cheese, and almond milk. Mix all ingredients together with a hand mixer, if it is too chunky or not smooth enough for you then you can also
place all the ingredients into a blender and mix until creamy.
I am going to try and make this [Insanely Easy Skillet Garlic Butter Naan Bread (no bake)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QONlYj399Nk) by Joshua Weissman
for the very first time tonight and I am curious about the 60 minutes I am supposed to let the dough rise.

&#x200B;

What happens if I let it rise for 90 minutes or even two-three hours? In general any dough that has to rise. Is it a big deal to let it go longer?

&#x200B;

I want to be ready to cook it but I have other dishes that I have to time as well and timing the completion of food all at the same time is not a skill I have perfected
yet.
[Parmesan Crusted Cod](https://youtu.be/bsUcbYS_dfo)

Ingredients

•3-4 pieces Cod

•1 tsp kosher salt

•½ tsp pepper

•½ tsp onion powder

•½ tsp garlic powder

•½ tsp chili powder

•½ tsp paprika

•½ tsp crushed red peppers

•1 tsp lemon juice

•1 tsp olive oil

•½ cup parmesan cheese


Directions
Add fish to a bowl and season with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, crushed red peppers, lemon juice, olive oil. Rub seasoning into
fish then sprinkle parmesan cheese over fish to coat for the breading. Add fish to a baking tray lined with foil and cooking spray for easy clean up. Bake in the oven
at 400 degrees for 12-15 minutes.
[Fish (Japanese Style)](https://youtu.be/aRmZX1niKtI)

**Instruction**

Add 100ml of water

Add 2 and a 1/2 tablespoons of soy sauce

Add 2 tablespoons of cooking sake

Add 3 tablespoons of sweet sake

Add right-eyed flatfish

Cover the fish with foil

Cook at low to medium heat for 10 to 15 mins
[Peanut Butter and Jelly Cups](https://youtu.be/Vqg1KxESl8E)

•1 ¼ cups of all natural peanut butter

•½cup coconut oil

•¼ to ⅓ cup sugar free jelly

•2 tbs sugar substitute

In a saucepan or add peanut butter coconut oil and sugar substitue and heat on low until well combined and smooth. Place peanut butter mixture at the bottom of
your mini muffin pan. Place in the freezer for 20 minutes until hard. Place the sugar free jelly in the middle of each peanut butter cup, then pour the remaining
peanut butter mixture over top of the jelly. Place back into the freezer until hardened. Store in the freezer and enjoy.
[Apricot Ginger White Hennessy Glazed Ham](https://youtu.be/oQS6u46FFKM)

Ingredients

•Ham (Spiral or uncut is fine)

•¼ cup sugar free apricot preserves

•⅓ cup stevia sugar substitute

•1 oz White Hennessy or Hennessy

•1-1 ½ tsp ginger

•2 oz water

Take the ham out of the packaging and rinse off and pat dry. Place in a heavy bottom skillet or baking dish and score the ham if not spiral cut. Place in the oven at
350 degrees for 30 minutes. In a saucepan add apricot preserves, stevia sugar substitute, white hennessy, grated ginger and water then whisk until smooth and
well combine. place over medium heat once it comes to a boil bring to low and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove the ham out of the oven and baste with glaze every
20 minutes until the internal temp of the ham reaches at least 130 degrees.
Hey, if you live in the Bay Area there is a new company that is designed to make cooking fun and something you look forward to! They deliver right to your door so
you don't have to risk going out and getting COVID.

It's called Take Home. They deliver you meal kits from top restaurants so you know it's good. With every order they include recipe & ingredients from the restaurant
so you're using the same things the actual chef does. They also include a playlist to listen to while you cook, a fun goodie bag, and some background info on the
restaurant/food so you can learn a little bit about what you're cooking. It's a lot of fun and is designed to be easy so anyone can do it, and it's fun so you can get
excited to cook! You can check them out at [takehomesf.com](https://takehomesf.com)

You can check out some of their "how-to" videos [here](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCkFsvSbudKkH3WhR8n_-Aiw) if you wanna see some of their kits and
just how easy it is.
[Fried Cabbage and Bok Choy](https://youtu.be/0QXBXpeJmAU)

Ingredients

•2 heads of cabbage

•2 lbs bok choy

•1 yellow onion

•4-6 mini sweet peppers

•2 tsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•1 tsp Italian seasoning

•1 tbs cajun seasoning

•4 tbs unsalted butter

Directions
Chop up the cabbage and bok choy and wash to clean. In a large pan over high heat add the oil along with as much cabbage as you can to the pan. Cook down the
cabbage and continue mixing the cabbage by mixing the wilted cabbage at the bottom of the pan with the uncooked cabbage at the top of the pan. Once the
cabbage as cooked down add the remaining bok choy and cabbage to the pan and continue mixing to cook down the cabbage. Once its all cooked down season
with salt, pepper, italian seasoning, cajun seasoning, and butter. Once the cabbage is cooked down to your desired level remove it from the pan. You can add the
liquid to the cabbage or cook down to reduce and pour over top of the cabbage.
[Stuffed Bagel Bites](https://youtu.be/0ioQZ-mJuFU)

Ingredients

•1 ½ cup Mozzarella Cheese

•4 oz Cream Cheese

•1 cup Almond Flour

•1 Egg

•1 Jalapeno

•¼ cup Cheddar Cheese Cubes

•1 tbsp Everything Bagel Seasoning

Directions
Add mozzarella and cream cheese to a microwavable bowl and heat for one minute. Remove from the microwave and add the almond flour and mix cheese and
flour until well combined. Crack in your egg and continue mixing until no more loose almond flour remains. Once your dough is formed pull off a tablespoon sized
amount of dough and spread it out (use a rolling pin if you like) fill the dough with cream cheese, cheddar cheese and or jalapenos). Once all your bagel bites are
formed sprinkle Everything bagel seasoning over top and place the bagels into a preheated oven at 425 degrees for 15 minutes.
[Side dish Edamame](https://youtu.be/jotYmDhkGQM)

**Instruction**

Remove the green soybeans

Slice open and take out the mentaiko eggs with a spoon

Remove the outer skin of the Japanese yam/Chinese yam

Slice the Japanese yam/Chinese yam into pieces

Now mix everything together
My latest try at Spanish Food. Came out edible and super easy top make! Watch it here for detailed instructions or just for your enjoyment.

[https://youtu.be/rHjKJCsuJ-0](https://youtu.be/rHjKJCsuJ-0)

***Sangria Ingredients***

* Sangria: 1 bottle of young red wine, 1 can of soda (lime, orange, lemon), 1/2 peach, 1/2 orange, 1/2 apple, 1/2 cinnamon stick, 1-1.5 ounce brandy, 50ml liquid
sugar
* super easy, melt sugar in a small amount of hot water, chop fruit into 1-inch cubes, pour half of each fruit into a jar and pour the brandy and sugar in, then add the
young red wine
* I show you step by step in the video

***Patatas Bravas Sauce Instructions***

* ***1 clove minced garlic***
* 30ml sweet paprika
* 15ml hot smoked paprika
* 15ml corn starch
* 1 cup veg broth
* 7ml salt and vineger
* stir over medium heat until hot and pour over your potatoes.

potatoes should be cut into 1-2 inch cubes and cooked over medium high heat in olive oil until golden brown. strain oil and pour the sauce over and enjoy!

* Clams are super easy
* heat 1/4 cup olive oil put in clams and pour white wine over it until it covers 1/3rd of the clams
* add chopped parsley and sliced garlic in and 2-4 cayenne dry pepers
[Cooking Shunanigans](https://www.youtube.com/c/CookingShunanigans) is a different kind of cooking show where aspiring cooks can actually learn how to cook
based on techniques, basic cooking science, and professional tips/ hacks! It's structured the same way I learned in culinary school; by cooking dishes that
showcase the techniques and explaining them throughout the cooking process. The idea is to obtain the knowledge and confidence to cook anything without the
need of a recipe every again!
[Zucchini Ravioli](https://youtu.be/ofmg4zmk_-Q)

This made a lot of sauce. I had a lot left over feel free to half this recipe

Sauce

•2 - 28 oz cans of tomato sauce

•28 oz of diced tomatoes

•1 tbsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•1 tbsp onion powder

•1 tbsp garlic powder

•1 ½ tbsp Italian seasoning tbsp

•1 tbsp tomato paste

(sugar substitute to taste if your sauce is tart)

Ground Beef

•2 lbs ground beef

•1 tbs salt

•2 tsp pepper

•1 tbs onion powder

•1 tbs garlic powder

Filling

•3 large zucchini

•4 cups of spinach

•16 oz ricotta cheese

•¼ cup sour cream

•1 tsp salt

•1 tsp black pepper

•1 tbs onion powder

•1 tbs garlic powder

•⅓ cup parmesan cheese

•½ cup mozzarella cheese

•1 egg

Directions

To your saucepan add tomato sauce, diced tomatoes, salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, Italian seasoning, and tomato paste. Mix well, bring to a boil then
reduce to a simmer for 30 mins. Brown the ground beef season with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder (diced onions and minced garlic can also be used).
Cook until browned drain the oil and add to the tomato sauce and continue simmering on low.

Add a tablespoon of oil and saute the spinach for one minute remove and add to the filling.

Take the zucchini and cut off the ends and start slicing with a vegetable peeler or a mandolin. Cut very thin slices of zucchini you need 4 per ravioli. Make the filling
by mixing ricotta cheese, sour cream, salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, parmesan cheese, mozzarella cheese, and an egg. Mix well to combine

To make the ravioli take 3 zucchini slices and place them in a cross pattern. Add a tablespoon of filling to the center of each one and close all four sides. Place
seem side down in a baking tray that has a layer of sauce down on the bottom. Add all the ravioli to the baking tray top with mozzarella cheese and additional
sauce. Bake in the oven at 350 degrees for 30 minutes
[Lowcarb Fried Onions, Jalapenos and Pickles](https://youtu.be/cAnY8t5Ppig)

Ingredients

•1 Onion

•2 Jalapenos

•¼ cup dill pickle slices

•6 tbs unflavored whey protein powder

•1 tsp baking powder

•½ tsp baking soda

•½ tsp xanthan gum

•2 eggs

•2 tbs sparkling water

•½ pink Himalayan salt

•1 tbsp Seasoning of your choice we used Cousins & Kinfolks + Cousins Lime Pepper Seasoning

Directions
Peel and cut your onion to desired thickness. Separate rings and set them aside. To make the batter add protein powder, baking soda, baking powder, xanthan
gum, eggs, sparkling water, and seasonings and whisk until well combined. Dip onion rings into batter and place rings into your heated oil. Fry for 30 seconds on
each side and remove from oil. Repeat the process with jalapeno slices and dill pickle slices. Once removed from the oil, place on a paper towel to drain the oil and
sprinkle salt over top. Enjoy immediately.
https://youtu.be/hEj8ji7RFpk
Potato stir fry-
1. Heat a pan and add 1 TSP Clarified butter
2. Add cumin seeds 1 TSP
3. Add curry leaves and green chilli
4. Add the chopped potatoes
5. Saute for 1 min
6. Add crushed peanuts
7. Add Salt fo taste
8. Add freshly chopped coriander

It's an easy recipe and can be made by all in this lockdown!
Happy cooking guys! Stay home and stay safe! Take care!
[Easy & Quick Chinese Chilli Paneer Recipe for Beginners](https://youtu.be/F1WNBLKY07c)

Been wanting to share this easy beginner recipe to those who want a quick adventurous meal.

Ingredients:

Coating the Paneer:

· All Purpose Flour – 3 Tbsp

· Corn Flour – 3 Tbps

· Red Chilli Powder – 1 Tsp

· Salt – To Taste

· Panner Cubes – 200 gms

Preparing the Sauce:

· Oil – 1 Tbsp

· Chopped Onion – 3 Tbsp

· Chopped Ginger – 2 Tsp

· Chopped Garlic – 1 Tsp

· Chopped Green Chilli – 3 Tsp

· Sliced Red & Green Capsicum – Half Each

· Salt – 1 Tsp

· Sugar – 1 Tsp

· Red Chilli Powder – 2 Tsp

· Vinegar – 1 Tbsp

· Soy Sauce – 2 Tbsp

· Tomato Sauce – 2 Tbsp

· Corn Flour + Water Mix – 100 ml

· Chopped Spring Onions – 2 Tbsp

Process:

Mix all purpose flour, corn flour, salt and red chilli powder in a bowl. Add water little by little and beat till you achieve thick consistency. Coat the paneer in the mix
and fry in oil till golden brown colour. Once cooked, set aside to cool.

Heat 1 Tbsp oil in a pan and add chopped onions, ginger, garlic and green chilli in the above mentioned quantities. Mix well for 2 mins. Add the sliced capsicum and
cook for 5 minutes. Add salt and sugar to taste and mix well. Add red chilli powder, vinegar, soy sauce, tomato sauce, corn flour and water mix, into the vessel in
the mentioned quantities and saute for 5 minutes. Add the fried paneer cubes into the sauce and coat it well. Top the dish with some spring onions for added
flavour. Your Chinese Chilli Paneer is ready to eat :)
[Fried Eggs Turkey and Cheese](https://youtu.be/2tR1nqnkGtw)

Ingredients

•3 eggs

•3-6 slices of turkey

•6-9 slices of pepperoni

•⅛ cup sliced jalapenos

•3 slices of muenster cheese

•salt and pepper to taste

Directions
Add oil to your skillet and heat over medium heat. Add your eggs season with salt and pepper. Cook on one side for one minute and flip. Once flipped top with
turkey, and pepperoni cook for 30-45 seconds and flip back over pepperoni side down and top with jalapenos and cheese. Remove once cheese has melted and
enjoy.
[Dahi Bhalla Papadi chaat](https://www.crazycooks.in/dahi-bhalla-papdi-chaat-how-to-make-dahi-chaat-dahi-bhalla-chaat-street-style-chaat-varun/)

Dahi Bhalla Chaat Ingredients:
How To Make Sweet Curd For Chaat
1 & 1/2 cups Curd
2/3 cup Sugar

How To Make Bhalla
1 cup White Lentils (soaked in warm water)
2-3 tbsp Water
Salt (as per taste)
Water
1 tbsp Hot Vegetable Oil
Vegetable Oil (for deep frying)
2 cups Water

How To Make Dahi Bhalla
Papdi
Green Chutney
Sweet Tamarind Chutney
Cumin Seeds Powder (roasted)
Black Salt
Red Chilli Powder
Pomegranate Kernels
Coriander Leaves
[Skillet Taco Dip](https://youtu.be/zf7rPlahX7Q)

•Ingredients

•1 large yellow onion

•2 jalapenos

•1 ½-2 lbs ground beef

•14 oz diced tomatoes

•10 oz diced tomatoes with green chilies

•7 oz green chilies

•1 tbsp salt

•1 tbsp pepper

•2 tsp onion powder

•2 tsp garlic powder

•2 tsp chili powder

•2 tsp paprika

•2 tsp cumin

•2 tsp oregano

•2 tsp basil

•8 oz cream cheese

•⅓cup cream cheese

•¾ cup mozzarella cheese

In a skillet add oil and heat over medium high heat and saute the onions and jalapenos for 2 minutes until softened. Add in the ground beef and break into crumbles.
Cook until browned 5-7 minutes. Remove the meat from the pan and drain the oil. Add the ground beat back to the pan and over medium heat season with salt,
pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, cumin, oregano, basil. Mix seasoning with the meat then add the cream cheese, sour cream, and
cheese and continue to mix for 2-3 minutes. Once cheeses are melted serve and enjoy.
[Spicy Three Pepper Thai Chili Habanero Burger](https://youtu.be/Px6kDdAfei8)

Ingredients

•2 Thai chili peppers

•1 habanero pepper

•1 jalapeno pepper

•1 lb ground beef

•⅓ cup cheddar cheese

•2 slices of Aldi zero carb bread

•¼ Roma tomato

•3 slices of green leaf lettuce

•1 tbsp olive oil mayo

•1 tsp mustard

•salt and pepper to taste


Directions
Dice up all the peppers Thai, habanero and jalapeno pepper. Form your burger patties. Salt them and place them in a hot skillet for 2 minutes for the first side. Salt
and pepper the other side and flip and cook for an additional 2 minutes. Once the burger is fliped add the diced peppers to the pan and cook them. After 2 minutes
add the peppers to the top of the burgers and place the cheese over top of each burger. Place a lid on the pan to steam and melt the cheese. Top your burgers with
the condiments of your choice we used green leaf lettuce, mayo, mustard and tomatoes. Enjoy
We decided to teach ourselves how to make some of the foods we really enjoy but had limited access to as the events of 2020 began to unfold. While we were at it
we started a YouTube channel to help share recipe ideas. It has taken almost a year to really start sharing what we have been working on, but we hope you enjoy.
Pizza is one of our favorite foods and really easy to customize to your liking. We hope this quick recipe helps get your creative juices flowing!

[Pepperoni & Jalapeno Pizza](https://youtu.be/zN-CQJVg-PM)

Dough:

Homemade or Store Bought

Base:

Pizza Sauce

Toppings:

Pepperoni

Full Fat Mozzarella Cheese

Fontina Cheese

Jalapenos

&#x200B;

Bake at 450 degrees (middle rack in oven) 15-20 minutes for homemade dough and 8-10 for store bought. \*Watch for cheese to be melted to your liking and the
crust a nice golden brown.

\*\*Pepperoni Tip\*\* - If you put the pepperoni under the cheese, you will get a softer pepperoni bite. If you put the pepperoni on top of the cheese, it will be crispier.

&#x200B;

Enjoy!
[Stuffed Chicken Breast with Sautéed Zucchini
](https://youtu.be/b_8ApS5ev38)

Ingredients

•2 Chicken Breast

•¼ cup mozzarella cheese

•1 tomato

•2 large zuchinni

•5 tsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•1 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 All Purpose Seasoning no salt

•4 tsp Italian Seasoning

•1 tbsp Lemon Pepper

Directions
Slice the tomato and Butterfly the chicken breast in half. Season the chicken with olive oil, 2 tsp salt, pepper, all-purpose seasoning. Rub seasoning into meat and
set aside. Place the chicken on a lined baking tray (we sprayed with cooking spray). Top the chicken with mozzarella cheese and the tomato slices, then sprinkle 1
tsp of Italian Seasoning over top of the tomato and cheese. Close the chicken breast and secure it with toothpicks. Place in the oven at 350 uncovered for 45-50
minutes or until internal temperature reaches 160 degrees. In a large skillet add enough oil to cover the bottom of the pan and heat over medium-high heat with a
tablespoon of unsalted butter. Add the zucchini slices and season with the remaining salt, lemon pepper, and Italian Seasoning. Saute zucchini for 5-6 minutes
mixing continuously. If you are not cooking a lot of zucchini this may only take 2-3 minutes. Remove from the pan once browed and the zucchini has softened.
[Low Carb Turkey Meatballs](https://youtu.be/MgFc5_mxAlk)

Ingredients

•2 lbs Ground Turkey

•5-6 Mini Sweet Peppers

•2 Jalapenos

•1 bunch of parsley leaves

•2 tsp Salt

•1 ½ tsp Pepper

•1 ½ tsp Onion Powder

•1 ½ tsp Garlic Powder

•1 ½ tsp Chili Powder

•1 ½ tsp Paprika

•1 tbs Italian Seasoning

•1 Egg

•¾ cup Almond Flour

•½ cup Parmesan Cheese

•2 tbs Olive Oil

Directions
Prep by chopping up the mini sweet peppers, jalapeno, and parsley. To a bowl add all ingredients except for the jalapenos and olive oil and mix well. If you want
jalapenos throughout the dish mix with all other ingredients. If you only want jalapenos in a few add later or mix in with the meatballs that you want spicy. Pour olive
oil over the top of the mixture and start forming your meatballs we used an ice cream scooper. Place meatballs on a lined greased baking sheet and cook at 350
degrees for 45-50 minutes. Remove from oven let cool and enjoy!
[No Bake Lemon Coconut Balls](https://youtu.be/WUbeByT0gcc)

Ingredients

•¼ cup whipped cream cheese (softened cream cheese is ok also)

•1 tbs sour cream

•zest of one lemon

•1 tbs lemon juice

•½ cup almond flour

•1 tbsp coconut flour

•1 tbsp stevia sugar substitute

•¼ tsp vanilla extract

•pinch of salt

•¼ cup unsweetened coconut flakes

•1 tsp stevia sugar substitue

Directions
In a bowl add all ingredients cream cheese, sour cream lemon zest, lemon juice, almond flour, coconut flour, stevia, vanilla extract and salt. Mix all ingredients
together until well combined. Once mixed place bowl in the freezer for 10 mins. Remove from the freezer and add coconut flakes and sugar to a plate and roll out
your lemon balls. After rolling roll the ball in the coconut sugar mixture and enjoy! Store these in the fridge or freezer for long term storage
[Breakfast Turkey Burger](https://youtu.be/HAVXleOgoBI)

Ingredients (makes 4 burgers)

•1 lb. Ground Turkey

•1 tbsp Kinfolks + Cousins On Errythang Seasoning

•⅛ cup Onions

•4 Eggs

•4 slices Bacon

•¼ cup Avocado

•4 tsp Sugar Free Strawberry Jelly

•8 slices Aldi Zero Carb Bread

optional

Cheese

Jalapenos

Directions

Chop your onion and mix with ground turkey, season with your all purpose seasoning of your choice and mix til combined. Spray the silicone molds with cooking
spray and add your burgers to a skillet over high heat with olive oil to coat the bottom of the pan. Cook the burgers for 2-3 minutes per side. Once the burgers
release from the sides of the silicone mold you can remove the molds. Add the bacon to the pan along with the burgers and cook on both sides until the bacon is
fully cooked this should take about 3-4 minutes. Once the burgers are cooked add your silicone molds back to the pan and place an egg inside each mold season
with salt and pepper and cook for 2 minutes per side. (if you want a sunny side up egg do not flip if you want a runny yolk only cook for 30 seconds after flipping)
To build the burger spread avocado over each slice of bread and top with sugar free jelly. Add the burger patty, egg, and bacon. Enjoy!
[Bacon Twists](https://youtu.be/XGDHPo3DO7Q)

Ingredients

•6-8 strips of bacon

Directions
Place the bacon on a tray lined with aluminum foil. Twist the bacon until it remains twisted you can use toothpicks if you like but it isn't needed. Place in the oven at
425 degrees for 30-35 mins flipping halfway. Remove from the oven and let cool and dry on paper towels.
[Bacon Cheeseburger Pizza](https://youtu.be/oTzA8btiU3E)

Pizza Dough

Homemade or Store Bought

Base

BBQ Sauce

Toppings

Ground Beef (Browned and seasoned with salt, pepper, and garlic)

Bacon (Partially cooked about 3/4 of the way)

Dill Pickles

Sweet Onion

Sharp Cheddar Cheese

Bake at 450 degrees (middle rack in over) for 8-10 minutes for store bought pizza dough or 18-20 minutes for homemade dough. Watch for the cheese to be melted
nicely and the crust a golden brown.

Enjoy!!
[Edible Crystal Gems](https://youtu.be/2oO9QnaHXY8)

**Instructions**

Pour 200ml of water, boil over medium heat

Add 4g of agar agar powder

Stir

After the agar agar powder dissolves, allow it to simmer for 2 minutes

Now set it to low heat

Add 300g of sugar

Boil down until it becomes stringy

Pour it in a tray Add food coloring

Spread the coloring

Put it in the refrigerator for 2 hours

Tear them out into pieces as shown
[Blackened Swai Fish Taco Bowl](https://youtu.be/vScPXfEhRx8)

Ingredients

•4 pieces swai fish

•1 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Cajun Blackening Seasoning

•1 stalk of romaine lettuce

•2 cups baby spinach

•1 cup coleslaw or green cabbage

•1 cup purple cabbage


Sauce

•¼ cup olive oil mayonnaise

•2 tbsp sour cream

•1 tbsp lemon juice

•1 tsp olive oil

•1 tbsp white wine vinegar

•2 tbsp sriracha

•½ tsp salt

•½ tsp pepper

•1 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 Taco Seasoning

optional

•cilantro

•salsa

•jalapenos


Directions

Pat the fish dry to remove all moisture add a tablespoon of olive oil and cajun seasoning and rub the mixture on all sides of the fish. Add fish to a skillet and cook on
both sides for 2-3 minutes per side. Once cooked remove from skillet and let rest. To make the sauce add mayonnaise, sour cream, lemon juice, olive oil, vinegar,
sriracha, salt, pepper, and taco seasoning to a bowl and mix well. Let chill in the refrigerator until ready to use.

To build your fish taco bowl add lettuce to the bottom of the bowl and spinach and cabbage around the outside of the bowl. Place your fish over top and top with
sauce. I also added cilantro, salsa and jalapenos
[Italian Sub Panini ](https://youtu.be/6lxoCYO0WPk)

Ingredients

•1 low carb tortilla shell

•½ tbsp mayonnaise

•1 tsp mustard

•2 slices pepper jack cheese

•3-4 slices of pepperoni

•3-4 slices of salami

•3-4 slices of ham

•¼ tomato

•1 jalapeno

•1 tbsp banana peppers

•½ cup spinach

Directions
Lay one tortilla shell down in a skillet over low heat and spread mayo and mustard on one side of your tortilla. Build your sandwich by adding cheese, ham,
pepperoni and salami. Next topping with spinach, tomatoes, jalapeno and banana peppers. If using a panini press fold the tortilla shell over and lose the press over
medium heat for 2-3 minutes. If using a skillet you may need to use your knife to push the filling of the tortilla toward the back to help fold it over. Apply a bit of
pressure to the tortilla shell to help keep it closed and allow the cheese to melt and meat to soften. Cook on each side for 2 minutes. Slice in half and enjoy.
[No Bake Chocolate Peanut Butter Health Bars](https://youtu.be/fVmGGJTcB0o)

Ingredients

•1 cup Mixed Nuts

•⅓ Almond Flour

•¼ Stevia Sugar Substitute

•1 tbsp Cocoa Powder

•1 tsp Chia Seeds

•1 tsp Flax Seeds

•1 tbsp all natural peanut butter

•2 tbs Coconut Oil

Directions
Add mixed nuts to a food processor and pulse 3-4x. Add almond flour, stevia sugar substitute, cocoa powder, chia seeds, flax seeds, and coconut oil to the food
processor and mix for 2-3 minutes until well combined. Scrape down the sides of the food processor and remove the mixture. Place the mixture in a dish lined with
parchment or wax paper for easy cleanup and flatten out the mixture to your desired shape. Top with additional chopped mixed nuts and place in the refrigerator for
at least an hour. Remove and slice into bars. Enjoy!
[Air Fryer Turkey Tenderloin](https://youtu.be/VkVwviWiL9E)

Ingredients

•1 package of Turkey Tenderloin (should be 2 pieces)

•1 tbsp olive oil

•1 tsp salt

•1 tsp pepper

•1 tsp onion powder

•1 tsp garlic powder

•1 tsp lemon pepper seasoning

•1 ½ tsp Italian seasoning

•½ tsp parsley

Directions
Use a paper towel to wipe excess moisture off of turkey. Add olive oil and all seasonings. Salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, lemon pepper seasoning,
Italian seasoning and parsley. Rub into all sides of meat and place into the air fryer at 350 degrees for 30-40 minutes flipping half way depending on your air fryer
cooking time. Remove once it reaches 165 degrees. Let rest for 10 minutes, then slice and enjoy
Still pulling the thread on this "burger" pizza experiment. Really appreciate any feed back!

[Mushroom Swiss Burger Pizza](https://youtu.be/-StDr5TrB1o)

Pizza Dough

Homemade or Store Bought

Base

Stone Ground Mustard & Mayo

(8 TBSP Stone ground mustard + 1/2 to 3/4 cup of Mayo)

Toppings

Ground Beef (Browned and seasoned with salt, pepper, and garlic)

Caramelized Onions

Swiss Cheese

Sautéed Baby Portabellas (use your favorite shrooms!)

Gruyere Cheese

Bake at 450 degrees (middle rack in over) for 8-10 minutes for store bought pizza dough or 18-20 minutes for homemade dough. Watch for the cheese to be
melted nicely and the crust a golden brown.

Enjoy!!
[Instant Pot Refried Black Beans](https://youtu.be/_OnmEOTSjF0)

Ingredients

•1 lb black beans

•1 yellow onion

•4 cloves of garlic

•1 tbsp salt

•1 tbsp pepper

•1 tbsp oregano

•2 bay leaves

•4 cups of water

Directions
Clean and rinse off the black beans remove any broken, damaged or split beans. Place in the instant pot along with salt, pepper, onion, garlic, oregano and bay
leaves. Put on the lid and lock it set on pressure cook for 40 minutes. After the time has expired let the instant pot come to a natural release for 25 mins. Open the
lid and remove the beans. Add to a skillet with oil and cook the beans for 2-3 minutes. Start mashing the beans up. If you like you can add the beans to a blender to
have creamy smooth refried beans. If your beans are too thick add water a tablespoon at a time until your desired level of thickness.
[Coconut Creamed Kale](https://youtu.be/EoNSeKrog1w)

Ingredients

•3 Bunches of Fresh Kale

•1 Yellow Onion

•4 Cloves Garlic

•2 tsp Salt

•2 tsp Pepper

•1 can of Coconut Milk

•1 tbsp Curry Powder

Directions
Clean, wash and remove the leaves from the steams of the kale if they are not prewashed and chopped. Chop the onions and add them to a pot with a small
amount of oil over medium high heat for 2-3 minutes until they just start to turn brown. Chop the garlic and add the garlic to the pan and cook for 30 seconds.
Season with salt and pepper and add the coconut milk. Once it comes to a boil start adding all the chopped kale to the pan. Slowly tossing the kale with the coconut
sauce. Once all the kale has been added to the pan add a lid and cook over medium heat for 2-3 minutes stirring occasionally. Once all the kale has cooked down
add the curry powder to the kale mix and cook for an additional 1-2 minutes. Serve and enjoy.
So I took out some soup to defrost that I'd batch cooked but I noticed the foil I'd wrapped another one is has burst. Will it still be safe to eat? I think it froze before
the foil tore if that helps. Sorry if this isn't the right thread but I'd appreciate the insight.
[Strawberry Salsa | Strawberry Pico de Gallo](https://youtu.be/0QzXrItsrJU)

Ingredients

•4-5 strawberries

•1 Roma tomato

•½ yellow onion

•½ jalapeno

•¼ cup cilantro

•pinch of salt and pepper to taste

•juice of 1 lemon

Directions
Chop all of your veggies strawberries, tomato, onion, jalapeno, and cilantro. Place all into a bowl and season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Mix all ingredients
together and place in the refrigerator for at least 20 mins. Serve and enjoy.
If you are bored of eating biscoff cookies alone try this easy cookies recipe that is a combination biscoff and chocolate :)

[Biscoff chocolate cookies](https://youtu.be/LOWo3RkJ0iM)
[Chicken Crust Pizza](https://youtu.be/iZEKzadnVoY)

Ingredients

•2 Large Chicken Breasts

•1 ½ cup Mozzarella Cheese

•½ cup Cheddar Cheese

•⅓ cup Pizza Sauce

•1 Roma Tomato

•1 Jalapeno

•10-15 slices of Pepperoni

•1 tsp Italian Seasoning

Directions
Dice up the chicken breast and place it in a bowl with 1 cup of mozzarella cheese and mix them all together. Place the chicken and cheese mixture on your baking
sheet. Flatten and shape it into the desired shape of your crust and sprinkle Italian Seasoning over top of it. Place the chicken crust in the oven at 400 degrees for
20 minutes. Start checking the curst at the 10-15 minute mark and remove it from the oven once the cheese melts and the edges just start to brown. Remove the
pizza crust from the oven and start building your pizza. Add the toppings that you would like. We added pizza sauce, then topped it with a thin layer of cheddar and
mozzarella cheese. Tomatoes, jalapenos, pepperoni, and additional cheese. Placed it back in the oven under the broiler for 3-4 minutes until cheese melted then
served. Enjoy!

Hi everyone! My friends and I recently started a podcast inspired by our cooking adventures over quarantine. In each episode, we will be cooking, eating, and
chatting about the foods we love to eat. Hilariousness and deliciousness ensues.

Currently we have 4 episodes and will be releasing more soon!

You can check out The Grille on [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/6Pd2fttgGKxI1Wn5jku7dV?si=DSS0ifYCTqKJdo2LqQ36Hg), [Apple Podcasts]
(https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-grille/id1565600468), [Amazon Music](https://music.amazon.com/podcasts/01d84855-e7af-4f66-9cfb-
3ec327b33a2a/The-Grille), and more streaming platforms on our [website](https://thegrillepodcast.buzzsprout.com/).

About the show:

Myself and two of my friends (Danny and Keivan) absolutely love KBBQ. The three of us are food buddies and we are always trying new locations together, but
when lockdown happened, we were devastated because our beloved restaurants had to close their indoor seating. But eventually we realized we could set up a
small grill, buy our own meats and replicate the fun at home. Pretty soon, we were cooking together on a weekly basis at Danny’s apartment with his portable
tabletop grill, getting meats from our local Asian grocery stores, and putting together the most epic feasts.

The idea for this podcast was born from the incredible conversations we would have at our food get-togethers. These conversations would usually start on the
subject of the food and then wind off into discussions about college, video games, stocks, and whatever drama is happening in our own lives. My personal rationale
for this podcast is to give our listeners the impression that they’re sitting down for a meal and a chat with their friends. I think that it’s especially important during this
time where many people are feeling the effects of social isolation, to have a podcast that’s the closest thing you can get to hanging out with your buddies.
Is this the right place to ask? Is it ok to leave pasta in the pot with the water after it’s done cooking? For like 20 minutes?
Ingredients

•4 eggs

•¼ cup mozzarella cheese

•¼ yellow onion

•1 Roma tomato

•1 jalapeno

•2 tbsp Kerrygold unsalted butter

•1 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 All Purpose Seasoning

Directions
add ½ tsp butter to the pan and add the onions, tomatoes and jalapenos to the pan and saute for 2 minutes. Remove from the pan once softened. Clean out the
pan if need be and add the remaining butter to the pan over medium heat then add the mozzarella cheese to the skillet and cook for one minute and allow to melt.
Crack the eggs and scramble and season with all purpose seasoning. Add eggs to the pan and pour over top of the cheese and continue cooking for 2 minutes.
Once the eggs start to solidify over top of the cheese, add the toppings to the top of the eggs and fold half the omelet over to close it. Continue cooking for another
minute and flip the omelet so it doesn't cook too long on one side. Once the inside of the omelet is no longer runny remove it from the pan and enjoy.
[Tex Mex Burger Pizza](https://youtu.be/ac0LjYURwwU)

Pizza Dough

Homemade or Store Bought

Base

Guacamole

Toppings

Ground Beef (Browned and seasoned with salt, pepper, and garlic powder)

Chorizo

Pepper Jack Cheese

Sliced Jalapeno

Bake at 450 degrees (middle rack in over) for 8-10 minutes for store bought pizza dough or 18-20 minutes for homemade dough. Watch for the cheese to be
melted nicely and the crust a golden brown.

\*\*After Bake Ingredients\*\*

Pickled Shallots

Chipotle Ranch Drizzle

Cilantro

Enjoy!!
[Mother's Day Breakfast/Brunch](https://youtu.be/YKLxeIoQaFc)

Ingredients

•3 lbs snow crab

•2 lbs shrimp

•2 lbs of red and white potatoes

•1 large yellow onion

•4-6 cloves of garlic

•1 cup of Lousiana Seafood Boil Seasoning

•2 tbs Old Bay Seasoning

Directions
Clean and cut the potatoes in half Add to a pot of boiling water with seasoning mix. Add potatoes, onion and garlic and cook for 15 minutes. Add the crab legs to
the pot and cook for 10-12 minutes. Last add the shrimp to the pot and cook for 3-4 minutes. Drain and remove from the pot and enjoy!
Mexican-esque Chicken and Bean Dip

Easy, forgiving, low effort, freezes and reheats well, feeds 4-8

Ingredients:

2 chicken breasts

2 packets of taco seasoning

16 oz. jar of salsa (your preference)

8 oz can of black beans, drained

8 oz can of corn

8 oz can of refried beans

8 oz brick of cream cheese

Tortilla chips (preferably scoops)

Feel free to double or remove chicken, beans, or corn depending on your preference. Add more refried beans for a thicker dip, or less to be looser.

Instructions:

Slow cooker: (if you’re a new cook, please get one of these)

Add all ingredients except the cream cheese and cook on low for 4-6 hours, at least until the chicken is cooked through. When ready to eat, remove the chicken
breasts and shred them into ribbons or bite-sized pieces before re-adding them to the pot. Stir in the cream cheese until melted. Dip into bowls for dipping or fill
burritos and serve.

Pressure cooker:

Put all ingredients except cream cheese into the cooker and cook in the manufacturer recommended chicken setting. When cooked, remove the chicken breasts
and shred into bite sized pieces. Add the shredded chicken and cream cheese to the pot and stir. Then, dip into bowls or burritos and serve.
[90 Second Brownie](https://youtu.be/SABUUSyZrco)

Ingredients

•2 tbsp olive oil

•2 tbsp coconut flour

•2 tbsp peanut butter powder

•1 tbsp cocoa powder

•2 tbsp monk fruit sweetener

•pinch of salt

•3 tbsp almond milk

•¼ tsp vanilla extract

Directions
Take your mug or ramekin and add olive oil and grease all sides of your mug. Add in coconut flour, peanut butter powder, cocoa powder, salt, monk fruit sweetener,
milk, and vanilla extract. Mix all ingredients well. The batter should be a bit thick but still runny. Place in the microwave for 90 seconds. Remove from the
microwave. Caution your mug may be very hot. Optional top with sugar-free whipped cream. You can eat it straight out of the mug or place it into a bowl or plate
and enjoy.
[Chocolate Chip Blondie Mug Cake](https://youtu.be/gDTD4WXg9Vg)

Ingredients

•1 tbsp unsalted butter

•3 tbsp almond flour

•1 tbsp coconut flour

•½ tsp baking powder

•2 tbsp of golden monk fruit sweetener

•1 egg

•3 tbsp almond milk

•½ tsp vanilla extract

•2 tsp chocolate chips

•pinch of salt

Directions
Melt the butter in the microwave for 20-30 seconds. Add butter to the mug and coat all sides with melted butter. Add all ingredients to the mug except for the
chocolate chips. Almond flour, coconut flour, baking powder, monk fruit sweetener, egg, almond milk, vanilla extract and salt. Mix well and add half the chocolate
chips to the mug. Microwave for 90 seconds. Once removed from the microwave top with remaining chocolate chips and sugar free whipped cream and enjoy
60 Second Mini Cheesecake Mug Cake ](https://youtu.be/oNuKi6X7Hyg)

Ingredients

•6 oz whipped cream cheese

•1 egg

•1 tsp lemon juice

•½ tsp vanilla extract

•3 tbsp sugar substitute

•6 tbsp almond flour

•½ tsp cinnamon

•¼ tsp nutmeg

•1 tsp powdered sugar substitute

•1 tbsp melted butter

Directions
Melt the butter and set aside. To a bowl add softened cream cheese, egg, lemon juice, vanilla extract, and sugar substitute and mix well until no lumps are visible.
In another bowl add almond flour, cinnamon, nutmeg, powdered sugar substitute, and melted butter and mix together until small crumbles form. Grease your
ramekins with cooking spray, oil, or butter, and place half of the almond flour crust mixture into each dish. Press down with a spoon or flat cup to shape the crust to
the bottom of the dish. Pour half of the cheesecake filling into each dish and place in the microwave for 60 seconds. Remove from the microwave and let the dish
cool for 5-10 mins then place in the refrigerator for at least 30 mins. You can also place in the freezer for faster cooling.
[Peanut Butter Cup Mug Cakes](https://youtu.be/R0b4ywD-f5Y)


Ingredients

•2 tbsp almond flour

•3 tbsp peanut butter powder

•2 tbsp sugar sub

•dash of salt

•½ tsp baking powder

•1 egg

•3 tbsp almond milk

•½ tsp vanilla extract

•1 tbsp melted butter

•1 sugar free peanut butter cup

Directions
Add all ingredients to a bowl almond flour, peanut butter flour, sugar substitute, salt, baking powder, egg, almond milk, vanilla extract, and melted butter. Mix well
until fully combined. Pour the cake batter into a greased mug and add the peanut butter cup to the mug cake and microwave for 75 seconds. Let cool for 1-2
minutes and enjoy
[Hamster On Burger Patty](https://youtu.be/ZzosFK4AnT0)

**Instructions**

Slice the onion into small pieces



Put food plastic wrap over the sliced onions



Add 200g of ground beef and pork



Add the sliced onions



Add 1 tablespoon of bread crumbs



Add an egg



Add a dash of salt



Add a dash of pepper



Mix them well



Make a round shape and a dent in the middle



Add 1 tablespoon of cooking oil



Fry on medium heat



When the meat surface turns crisp and golden in color, add sake



Put the lid on



Grate white radish



Squeeze out the liquid from the white radish



Shape it



Use a small stick as shown to be more precise



Use black beans for the eyes



Color the hamster with soy sauce



Put red food coloring on the feet and mouth



Lastly add green shiso leaf
[Chicken Bowl](https://youtu.be/PmvvFpRyRAc)

Ingredients

•2 chicken breast

•1 tsp salt

•1 tsp pepper

•2 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 Taco Seasoning

•1 cup lettuce

•⅛ cup onion

•⅛ cup bell pepper

⅛ cup cheddar cheese

•⅛ cup jalapenos

•¼ cup cucumbers

•1 tbsp salsa

•1 tbsp sour cream

•1 tbsp guacamole

Directions
Season the chicken breast with salt, pepper, and taco seasoning. Place in a heated skillet over medium high heat with oil and cook for 2-3 mins per side if using
thin slices of chicken. Once the chicken is finished cooking saute the onions and bell peppers for 2-3 minutes over medium heat. To build your bowl add chopped
and washed lettuce to the bottom of the bowl and top with chopped grilled chicken, grilled onions and peppers, cheddar cheese, jalapenos, cucumbers, salsa, sour
cream, and guacamole, and enjoy
[Scotch Broth ](https://youtu.be/7Z4llvR4uNY) this is a nice recipe. Cheap and easy to make with left over chicken as a lot of folks are struggling financially.
[Smothered Chicken](https://youtu.be/2CkyKcpdKSs)

Ingredients

•5 lbs of chicken legs and thighs

•1 tbsp salt

•1 ½ tbsp pepper

•1 ½ tbsp onion powder

•1 ½ tbsp garlic powder

•1 ½ tbsp chili powder

•1 ½ tbsp paprika

•1 tbsp italian seasoning

•2 tbsp white vinegar


•½ large onion

•2 scoops unflavored whey protein powder

•1 tsp xanthan gum

•½ cup water

•¼ cup heavy whipping cream

•1 tbsp butter

optional if you do not use the juices from the chicken you can use chicken stock.

Directions
Clean your chicken and place it in a large bowl. Season with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, Italian seasoning, and vinegar. Rub
seasoning all over the chicken and under the skin. Line the chicken in a greased baking sheet and bake in the oven at 350 until internal temp reaches 160-165
around 35-40 minutes depending on your oven. Remove the chicken from the oven and save the juices from the chicken. (if you do not want to use the juice from
the chicken use chicken stock).

Mix unflavored whey protein, xanthan gum, water, and heavy whipping cream together until. Try to remove all lumps and set it aside. In a skillet add butter and the
chopped onion and saute for 2 minutes over medium high heat add in the liquid from the cooked chicken and bring to a boil. cook for 2 minutes and add in the whey
protein slurry. continue mixing until smooth and add the chicken back into the pan with the gravy along with any extra juices that may have come from the chicken
while resting. Cook the chicken in the gravy on low for 5-10 minutes and serve. If the gravy separates feel free to add it to a blender to mix and make a nice creamy
sauce
[Keto Meatloaf](https://youtu.be/XojqwkfSE48)

Ingredients

•5 lbs ground beef

•1 large onion

•1 cup mini sweet peppers

•¾ cup celery

•6 cloves garlic

•3 eggs

•1 ½ cup almond flour

•2 tbsp salt

•1 tbsp pepper

•1 tbsp onion powder

•1 tbsp garlic powder

•1 tbsp chili powder

•1 tbsp paprika

•1 tbsp Italian seasoning

•½ cup sugar free ketchup

•¼ cup sriracha

•3 tbsp yellow mustard

•pinch swerve sugar substitute


Directions
Chop your veggies onion, sweet peppers, celery, and garlic and combine with the ground beef. season with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder,
paprika, and Italian seasoning. Add in eggs, almond flour, sugar free ketchup and sriracha and mix well. Add meatloaf to a greased loaf pan. If no loaf pan is
available you can shape the meatloaf and place on a baking tray. Mix yellow mustard, sugar free ketchup, siracha, and sugar substitute together to add over top of
the meatloaf. Cook at 350 for an hour or until internal temp reaches 160. Remove from oven and let cool for 10 mins slice and enjoy.
[Stuffed Sausages](https://youtu.be/dY_mDkDsneg)

Ingredients

•1 package of Italian Sausages

•8 oz tomato sauce

•¼ cup yellow onion

•¼ cup bell peppers

•¼ cup cheddar cheese

•¼ cup mozzarella cheese

•1 jalapeno

•½ tsp salt

•½ tsp pepper

•¼ tsp onion powder

•¼ tsp garlic powder

•½ tsp Cooking With Thatown2 Italian Seasoning

Directions
Slice the sausages down the middle and stuff with cheeses, onions, bell peppers, and jalapenos, top with remaining cheese. Place in a baking dish with a tomato
sauce seasoned with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, and Italian seasoning. Place in the oven at 400 degrees for 35 mins until internal temp reaches
165.
[Curry Vegetable Stew](https://youtu.be/qnsLN1occ4E)

Ingredients

•2 eggplant

•2 zucchini

•3 yellow squash

•2 beefsteak tomatoes

•1 tbsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•3 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Curry Powder

•1 ½tbsp gram masala

Chop and cube all of the vegetables into 1 in cubes. In a large skillet add oil and heat over high heat. Add all the vegetables except for tomatoes and season with
salt, pepper, curry powder and gram masala. Continue mixing until all veggies are coated in seasoning. After 5 minutes add tomatoes mix and let simmer over
medium heat for 10 minutes mixing occasionally. Your dish is done once all the liquid has removed from the veggies and you have a nice sauce from the liquid from
the vegetables mixed with the seasonings and some of the vegetables have softened up. Taste to see if any additional seasonings are needed, you're ready to
serve.
[Japanese Sakura Rice](https://youtu.be/Rj24vkhdf08)

**Instructions**

Slice the radish into pieces

Use shape cutters to cut out the flower shapes as shown

Add 4 tablespoons of vinegar

Add 1 tablespoon and a teaspoon of water

Add 1 teaspoon of salt

Add 2 tablespoons of oligosaccharide syrup(or sugar instead)

Stir until salt dissolves

Pour it in a container

Add some food coloring

Stir

Put the flower shaped radishes into the food coloring

Place the flower shaped radishes on the already cooked rice

Add tiny flowers as decorations
[Air Fryer Beef Short Rib](https://youtu.be/ZcoBTx8g44k)

Ingredients

•1 lb Short Ribs

•1 tbsp Salt

•1 tbsp Pepper

•2 tsp Onion Powder

•2 tsp Garlic Powder

•1 tbsp Olive Oil


Optional pour Olive oil over the short ribs to help the seasoning stick. Season with salt, pepper, onion powder, and garlic powder. Rub the seasoning over all sides
of the meat. Place in the air fryer on Air Fry mode 390 degrees for 15 minutes flipping halfway. Enjoy!
[Sea Moss Gel](https://youtu.be/ZMJZZeNUH74)

Ingredients

•1 cup hydrated sea moss

•8-12 oz water

Directions
Wash the dry sea moss under cold water to remove any rocks, dirt, sand etc. Add to a bowl and completely cover the sea moss. Soak for at least 4 hours overnight
is preferred. Once the sea moss has hydrated drain water and rinse a few times to remove any salty water. add to a blender and mix until smooth. Store in the
refrigerator or freeze
[Blueberry and Raspberry Smoothie](https://youtu.be/lFUs9NSvsUE)

Ingredients

•2 tbsp blueberry

•2 tbsp raspberry

•2 tbsp sea moss gel

•1 tbsp heavy whipping cream

•¾ cup almond milk

•½ scoop isopure zero carb vanilla whey protein

•1 tbsp sugar substitute

Directions
Add all ingredients to a blender blueberry, raspberry, sea moss gel (optional), heavy whipping cream, almond milk, vanilla whey protein, and sugar substitute. Blend
together for 30 seconds to a minute until smooth and creamy. Enjoy!
[Peanut Butter Cookies](https://youtu.be/Yp5WqqEZpg0)

Ingredients

•1/2 cup Peanut Flour or Peanut Butter

•5 tbsp Water (not needed if using Peanut Butter)

•3 tbsp sugar substitute

•1 tbsp melted butter

•1 egg

•1/4 tsp vanilla extract

Directions mix the peanut flour and water together to make the peanut butter, add in sugar substitute, melted butter, egg, and vanilla extract. Once mixed and well
combined add to a grease baking tray or a silicone mat. Cook in a preheated oven at 350 degrees for 10 minutes. Let cool and enjoy.
[Apricot Apple Pie Mug Cake](https://youtu.be/_oz79UQxqCo)

Ingredients

•3 tbsp almond flour

•1 tbsp coconut flour

•2 tbsp golden monfruit sweetner

•½ tsp baking powder

•1 tbsp butter

•1 ½ tbsp almond milk

•1 tbsp heavy whipping cream

•1 egg

•½ tsp vanilla extract

•1 tbsp skinny girl apricot preserves

•1 tsp apple pie seasoning

•pinch of salt

Directions
Mix all ingredients almond flour, coconut flour, baking powder, monfruit sweetner, apricot preserves, almond milk, heavy whipping cream, melted butter, vanilla
extract, egg, apple pie seasoning, and salt. Mix well and add it to a greased mug and microwave for 90 seconds. Enjoy!
[Japanese Agar Agar](https://youtu.be/FEd4rxuGv3w)

Instructions



Boil 2 lady's fingers for 1-2 mins

Put the lady's fingers in cold water

Add 400ml of water

Add 3g of Agar powder

Add a pinch of salt

Stir and bring it to a boil

Slice the lady's fingers into pieces

Pour the agar into the mold

Add 4 cherry tomatoes

Add the lady's fingers

Add leaves as garnishes

Add Shrimps

Put them in the fridge for 1 hour
Air Fryer Mozzarella Sticks
Ingredients:
1-2 eggs
1/2 cup breadcrumbs
4-6 Mozzarella Cheese String

Drections:
1. Dip cheese into the egg then coat it with the breadcrumbs.
2. Dip it again into the egg and then coat again with breadcrumbs.
3. Spray air fryer basket with cooking spray before putting the cheese sticks in.
4. Cook at 380 F preheated air fryer for 4-5 minutes.
5. Enjoy!

Full vedio recipe here:
https://youtu.be/s8vwb3dsi1E
[Birch Benders Keto Classic Yellow Cake](https://youtu.be/g8KIJQGQr0o)

Ingredients

•1 package of Birch Benders Keto Yellow Cake Mix

•3 eggs

•⅓ cup oil

•½ cup water

Directions
Mix cake mix, eggs, oil and water together until fully combined. pour into a greased cake pan and cook at 350 degrees for 30 mins.
Wanna explore Indian cuisine? Here's a quick method to make Tawa Prawns Masala. Make it and tell me how you like it!

[Full Video Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Z-H-jFgPkM)
Cook This Book Molly Baz Sunday Brisket with Miso and Red wine! so good!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4vXX3HKUML8
[Donut Onigiri](https://youtu.be/kEpvxROFmMg)

**Instructions**

Add 1 tablespoon of olive oil

Add 1 cup of cooked rice

Fry the rice

Add 1-2 tablespoons of ketchup

Add 1 teaspoon of sugar

Add another cup of cooked rice

Add 1/2 tablespoon of soy sauce

Add 1/2 tablespoon of sweet sake

Add 1 cup of cooked rice into a bowl

Add red shiso leaves rice seasoning(Yukari Furikake)

Add another cup of cooked rice into the bowl

Add dried seaweed(desired amount)

Now use donut shaped rice ball mold to shape them up

Add 1 slice of cheese, half seaweed(Arare on top of it), 1 slice of prosciutto and 1-2 slices of cucumber respectively
Hey guys,

can you recommend some easy to make sauce for steak?
check this out [this channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/NamdeokiRasoi?sub_confirmation=1) for indian dishes which can easily be made when you can't go out.
[Keto Soul Rolls | Soul Food Egg Rolls](https://youtu.be/FboMfO_yy74)


Dough

•2 oz cream cheese

•2 cups mozzarella cheese

•¾ cup almond flour

•1 egg

Filling

•Cauliflower Mac and cheese

•Pulled Pork

•Turnip Greens

Directions
Add cream cheese and mozzarella cheese to a bowl and microwave for 45 seconds to a minute. Once softened add in almond flour and egg and combine all the
ingredients together to make the dough. Lay down the dough over parchment paper and roll out to a 1/2 in. and cut into squares. Fill with a tablespoon of cauliflower
mac and cheese, pulled pork, and greens. Close all sides to shape the roll and fry in your choice of oil for 1 minute per side over medium-high heat. Let drain to
remove excess oil and enjoy!
[Keto BBQ Low Carb Meal Prep Chicken Thighs, Hamburgers, Brisket, Cauliflower Mac and Cheese,Grilled Zucchini and Squash, Cucumber Salad]
(https://youtu.be/x9pg43l5mGQ)

•5 lbs Chicken Thighs

•2 tbsp Salt

•1 tbsp Pepper

•1 tbsp Onion Powder

•1 tbsp Garlic Powder

•1 tbsp Chili Powder

•1 tbsp Paprika

•1 tbsp Italian Seasoning

•1 tbsp Lemon Pepper Seasoning

•2 tbsp Vinegar

Zucchini and Squash

•2 zucchini

•2 yellow squash

•2 tsp salt

•1 tsp pepper

•2 tsp Italian seasoning

•1 tsp lemon garlic seasoning

•1 tbsp olive oil


Season Chicken with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili power, paprika, italian seasoning, lemon pepper seasoning and vinegar. Mix together and
place on the grill. Cook on each side for 10 mins then flip and place on top rack or indirect side of grill and cook until internal temp reaches 165.
[Cute Tiger Dish](https://youtu.be/J6hyrXZFlok)

**Instructions**

Grate white radish

Grate carrot

Squeeze out the liquid from the white radish

Squeeze out the liquid from the carrot

Shape the carrot as shown

Use toothpicks as shown

Shape the radish as shown

Use black beans for the eyes

Add seaweed for the nose

Add seaweeds for the stripes

Lastly add green shiso leaves as decoration



Don't forget to remove the toothpicks before you eat
[French Bread Pizza (3 Ways)](https://youtu.be/SMABgrXs6-Q)

Prepare Bread

Cut French bread into 3-4inch sections and then in half where the soft inside of bread is exposed.



No Cook Pizza Sauce

28 oz. - Crushed Tomatoes (We used fire roasted crushed tomatoes in this recipe, but regular work just fine).

6 oz. - Tomato Paste

1 tsp - Dried Oregano

1/2 tsp - Dried Basil

1 tsp - Sea Salt

1 tsp - Sugar

1 tsp - Garlic

\*Stir vigorously until all ingredients are incorporated well and sauce is thick.\*

\*\*Sauce can be used immediately, but has better flavor in the fridge for 1-2 hours or overnight.\*\*



Cheese French Bread Pizza (per slice)

1 slice - French Bread

2 tsp - Pizza Sauce

1 oz. - Full Fat Low Moisture Mozzarella Cheese



Pepperoni French Bread Pizza (per slice)

1 slice - French Bread

2 tsp - Pizza Sauce

1 oz. - Full Fat Low Moisture Mozzarella Cheese

.5 oz (6-8) - Pepperoni's



Pepperoni & Jalapeno French Bread Pizza (per slice)

1 slice - French Bread

2 tsp - Pizza Sauce

2 oz. - Diced Jalapeno

1 oz. - Full Fat Low Moisture Mozzarella Cheese

.5 oz (6-8) - Pepperoni's



Bake in the oven at 375 degrees for 15-20 minutes

Bake in Air Fryer (We used Ninja Foodi Digital Air Fryer) at 425 degrees for 8 minutes!

\*Watch for cheese to melt to a nice golden brown.\*

\*\*Since french bread is already cooked, watch that its getting toasted but not burnt.\*\*

Enjoy!!

[Aldi and Walmart Keto Grocery Haul](https://youtu.be/epPVpb6WI0o)
[Instant Pot Pulled Chicken](https://youtu.be/1_wLCV2GCFs)

In the video I cooked 10 lbs of chicken. I scaled the recipe back to half that for the ingredients but feel free to adjust to however much chicken you are using.

Ingredients

•5 lbs Chicken Breast

•2 tbs Salt

•1 1/2 tbs Pepper

•1 tbsp Onion Powder

•1 tbsp Garlic Powder

•2 tbsp Chili Powder

•1 tbsp Paprika

•2 tbs Cumin

•4 tsp Basil

•4 tsp Mexican Oregano

•1 Yellow Onion

•1 cup Water

Add all the chicken to the instant pot and season with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, cumin, basil, oregano, and yellow onion. Add
water and mix. Close lid and pressure lock cook on high for 30 mins and let natural release for 15 minutes. Open lid, shredded chicken and enjoy.
Almond porridge

Almonds / Badam - 1 cup

cardamom /elachi - 7

rice (seeraga samba ) - 1 cup

boiled milk - 1 tumbler

coconut - i cup

water - 1 litre

sugar / country sugar - 1 spoonful



Note: The porridge consistency should be slightly thicker add adequate amount of water.



cooking time : 20 minutes

serving: 5
[Creamy Greek Yogurt Cilantro Eggs](https://youtu.be/JRK0TMHZCdA)

Ingredients

•4 eggs

•2 tbsp greek yogurt

•1 tbs heavy whipping cream

•1/8 cup green onions/scallions

•2 tbsp cilantro

•salt to taste

•pepper to taste

Directions
In a bowl mix eggs, yogurt, heavy whipping cream, salt, and pepper. Chop green onions and add to a pan with olive oil over high heat sautee for 30-45 seconds add
in eggs and lower the heat to medium low and cook eggs for 2-3 minutes constantly stirring until your desired level of doneness. Once cooked top with cilantro and
enjoy.
[Chicken Melt Sandwich](https://youtu.be/HrCKTbLXbao)

Ingredients - Makes 6 patties

•2 cups Pulled chicken

•¼ cup yellow onion

•1 stalk green onion

•1 jalapeno

•3 tbsp mayonnaise

•⅓ cup Colby jack cheese

sandwich toppings optional

•Aldi low carb hamburger buns

•mustard

•butter lettuce

•Roma tomato

•sriracha

Directions
Add pull chicken mayo, Colby jack cheese, onion, green onions, and jalapenos to a bowl and mix. Form your patties add to a nonstick pan over medium heat for 1-2
minutes per side enough for the cheese to melt and the patties to keep their shape. Remove from the pan to cool and build your sandwich with your desired
toppings. We used mayonnaise, mustard, butter lettuce, tomatoes, and sriracha. Enjoy!
I've always disliked mushrooms, but with the recent studies showing how healthy they are especially for avoiding cancer, I've been trying. I made [these]
(https://www.inspiredtaste.net/36274/how-to-cook-mushrooms/) last night and even 2 out of 3 kids liked them. I used the optional add ins of thyme, butter, lemon
zest and garlic.
[Smoothie Hack - Smoothie King Keto Champ Berry Smoothie](https://youtu.be/FGtOl4oCFsk)

Ingredients

•1 Frozen Smoothie

Directions. Take the frozen Smoothie and place it in the microwave for 90 seconds to 2 minutes. Just enough for the smoothie to separate from the cup or container
that it is in. Place it in the blender and mix for 10 seconds and enjoy.
[Grilled/BBQ Chicken Leg Quarters](https://youtu.be/2iG9tSFUpgY)

Ingredients

•10 lbs leg quarters

•2 tbsp salt

•1 ½ tbsp pepper

•1 tbsp onion powder

•1 tbsp garlic powder

•1 tbsp powder

•1 tbsp paprika

•1 tbsp lemon pepper seasoning

3-4 lbs Broccoli

•2 tsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•1 tsp onion powder

•1 tsp garlic powder

•1 tsp lemon pepper season

•2 tbsp olive oil

•2 tbsp butter

Directions
Season chicken with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, chili powder, paprika, and lemon pepper seasoning. Place on grill at 300 degrees over the flame for
2-3 minutes to get color on both sides of the chicken them remove to the indirect side of the grill (not over the heat source) to smoke for an hour.
[Pan Seared Garlic Butter Salmon](https://youtu.be/tayph5PVrgs)

Ingredients

•2 Salmon Fillets

•1 tbs olive oil

•1 tbsp garlic butter

•1 tbsp all-purpose seasoning (we used Kinfolks and Cousins seasoning)

•optional 1 tsp lemon juice

Directions
Pat fish dry and oil with olive oil. Heat up a nonstick skillet over medium-high heat add butter and salmon to the pan cook on each side for 3-4 minutes. Baste fish
with butter remove from the pan and let rest for 5 mins and enjoy.
[Yogurt Cups](https://youtu.be/JyQzR37odik)

**Instructions**


Add 1 pack of yogurt into a bowl

Pour 100ml of milk into the bowl

Stir

Add 5g of gelatin(dissolved in hot water)

Add some yogurt mousse into a small bowl

Add some black sesame seeds

Add some yogurt mousse into a glass bowl

Add green tea powder

Pour the yogurt mousse into containers as shown

Pour the black sesame seed yogurt mousse into the container as well

Pour the green tea yogurt mousse into the container as well

Put them in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 1 hour

Add 2.5g of gelatin powder in hot water

Add 1 tablespoon of sugar

Add some food coloring(blue)

Pour it into a container

Put it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 1 hour

Cut the jelly into pieces

Add the jelly onto the yogurt mousse

Add 0.5g of gelatin into 10ml of hot orange juice

After the gelatin dissolves, add 10ml more of orange juice(not hot)

Put orange slices into the 2 containers containing yogurt mousse

Now pour it(gelatin, orange juice mixed) into the containers

Put them in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to 1 hour

Slice the kiwi as shown

Shape the sliced kiwi into a flower like shape

Put it into the container containing the yogurt mousse as decoration

Add berries into the container containing the yogurt mousse

Add almond nuts soaked in honey into the container containing yogurt mousse

Add mint leaves

Add berries into the blender

Add yogurt mousse into the blender and blend them together

Pour it into the container

(Yogurt)

Add the yogurt as decoration

Add fruit granola into the container containing yogurt mousse

Add green tea sauce(green tea powder and some sugar with drops of water) as topping for the green tea yogurt mousse

Use yogurt and black sesame seeds to design the face of a seal for the black sesame seed yogurt mousse
[Back On The Grill/BBQ For The 4th of July](https://youtu.be/M9O2dgiV9kc)
If you're currently experiencing Winter, and stuck at home because of "you-know-what", then treat yourself to a nice [hearty beef stew.]
(https://youtu.be/RVglmnBoGLk)
[Spicy Scrambled Eggs](https://youtu.be/2u_cJcOon4k)

•Feeds 3-4

•Ingredients

•5 eggs

•¼ yellow onion

•1 green onion

•4 cloves garlic

•4 mini sweet peppers

•1 jalapeno

•1 Roma tomato

•salt to taste

•pepper to taste

•olive oil or unsalted butter to grease pan

Directions
Chop veggies onion, green onion, garlic, sweet peppers, jalapeno, and tomato. Heat skillet over medium high heat and add oil or butter if not nonstick. Add veggies
and saute for 2-3 minutes once softened add eggs and cook for 2 minutes stirring often. Season with salt and pepper, cook until your level of doneness and enjoy!
[Chicken Thighs Teriyaki Broccoli Zucchini & Squash](https://youtu.be/D79gBEPBfLY)

The recipe made 12 meals

•8 lbs Chicken Thighs

•3 tbsp salt

•3 tbs Cooking With Thatown2 All Purpose Seasoning

•3 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Italian Seasoning



•6 heads of brocolli

•1 large yellow onion

•6-8 mini sweet peppers

•5 cloves garlic

•⅛ cup G. Hughes Teriyaki marinade

•⅛ cup coconut aminos/soy sauce

•1 tbsp ground ginger

•1 tbsp sugar substitute

•2 tsp salt

•1 tbsp pepper



•3 Zucchini

•3 Yellow Squash

•1 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Italian Seasoning

•2 tsp onion Powder

•2 tsp garlic powder

•2 tsp salt

•2 tsp pepper

•optional cheddar cheese

Season chicken thighs with salt, all pourpose seasoning (leave salt out if your all purpose has salt in it)band Italian seasoning let chicken marinate for at least 30
minutes. Add chicken to skillet skin side down and cook for 6-8 minutes per side. If you do not have a good sear on your chicken. Place it under the broiler on high
for 2 minutes.

Wash and chop broccoli florrets, onions, mini sweet peppers and garlic. Add broccoli to a pot and steam for 5 minutes. Add oil to your pan and saute the onions and
mini sweet peppers for 90 seconds. Add garlic and cook for an additional 30 seconds. Next add steamed broccoli, teriyaki marinade, coconut aminos or soy sauce,
ground ginger, sugar substitue and pepper. Continue cooking and mixing for 3-4 minutes to get the broccoli coated in the sauce.

Slice your zucchini and squash add them to a large pan with oil over high heat. Season with salt, pepper, onion powder, garlic powder, and Italian seasoning.
Continue cooking and tossing vegetables for 4-5 minutes once the vegetables are fork tender they are done. Optional top with cheddar cheese.
[Spicy Grilled Chicken Sandwich](https://youtu.be/4qMyuOVQYIs)


Ingredients

•2 Chicken breast

•1 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 All Purpose No Salt Seasoning

•1 tsp Cooking With Thatown2 Lemon Garlic Seasoning

•½ tsp salt

•½ tsp pepper

•2 Aldi L'oven fresh low carb buns

•1 tbsp olive oil mayo

•1 tsp mustard

•2 romaine lettuce leaves

•¼ tomato

•1 serrano pepper

•2 tbsp cilantro

•1 tsp siracha

Our chicken breast were frozen. We added some olive oil into the skillet and seasoned the chicken with salt and pepper placed a lid over the chicken and let it cook
on low for 10 to slowly cook and thaw. After 10 mins we added the Cooking With Thatown2 All Purpose No Salt Seasoning and Lemon Garlic Seasoning to the
chicken on both sides raised the heat to medium and continue cooking the chicken with the lid on for 5-6 minutes flipping half way and added additional water to the
pan if the liquid cooked out. Once the chicken reached an internal temp of 165 we removed it from the pan and let it rest. We started building our sandwich by
adding Olive oil Mayo to the Aldi's buns top the sandwich with our toppings chicken breast mustard, lettuce, tomato, serrano peppers, cilantro and siracha.
green chicken recipe

INGREDIENTS:

Onion -2

tomato -2

green chilli - 4

coriander - 1 spring

mint leaves - 1 spring



For ginger garlic paste :

onion - 1

ginger - 5 inch

garlic - 10 cloves



home made masala - 2 tbsp

salt - 1 tsp

pepper - 1 tsp

turmeric - 1/2 tsp

chicken 1/2 kg



cooking time : 20 minutes

serving: 4
# Delicious Colombian Sweetcorn Tortillas

**Ingredients**

2 sweetcorns

2 eggs

250ml of milk

Olive Oil

1/4 pound of cheese (optional)

Guava Jelly (optional)

Honey (optional)

**Instructions**

1. Cut the kernels off the corn.
2. Grate the cheese (you can use your hands to grind it)
3. Add all the ingredients to a blender. Also, add 3 spoons of oil and 2 spoons of honey.
4. Blend for 1-2 minutes at maximum power.
5. Bring a pan and cook over low heat. Add 3 spoons of oil and wait until the oil is hot.
6. When the oil is ready, cook over medium heat.
7. Add 3 or 4 spoons of the mixture we made in the blender. Spread it across the pan.
8. Cook for 3-5 minutes. Cook the other side for 1 minute.
9. Repeat to make as many arepas you want :)

**Tips and tricks**

* Don't add too much milk to the blender. Otherwise, your tortillas won't solidify.
* When the first side of the arepa is cooked, you'll see bubbles
 and holes in the surface. The borders will be brown. It will come
 out easily with a spoon.

You can see this recipe and many more in my [Free Colombian Cooking Course.](https://www.udemy.com/course/colombian-cooking/?
couponCode=B7E79CFE05CE7B6E4F1F) Give it a try, I'm sure you'll love it.
[Sushi Pockets](https://youtu.be/ZDAnoNQEHag)

**Instructions**

Add aburaage into hot water to remove excess oil

Cut them in half

Add the slices of aburaage into the pan

Add 2 tablespoons of sugar

Add 2 tablespoons of soy sauce

Add 1/2 tablespoon of sweet sake(mirin)

Add 100ml of water

Bring to a boil

Set to low heat for 10 minutes

Put them in a container and let them cool off

Put them in the refrigerator for a few hours

Add 2 cups of rice

Add 350ml of water

Add 1 tablespoon of black beans

Cook the rice

Add 1 tablespoon of sugar

Add 2 tablespoons of vinegar

Add 1/2 teaspoon of salt

Slice lotus root into pieces. (If the lotus root is raw, peel and slice it into pieces and put them in the microwave for 2 minutes)

Slice them into flower shapes

Add 2 tablespoons of vinegar into a container

Add 1 tablespoon of sugar

Add 1/2 teaspoon of salt

Stir

Add 6 flower shaped lotus root slices

Put the black bean sushi rice into the aburaage

Leave some aburaage open so that the black bean rice is visible

Put mizuna(Japanese mustard greens) in the microwave for 20 seconds, then with the mizuna tie the lotus root to the aburaage
[Cauliflower Crust Pizza from Your Pie Pizza](https://youtu.be/8rP7WJSqcEI)
[Jalapeno Popper Grilled Cheese Sandwich](https://youtu.be/0NwWUlg4oCI)

Ingredients

•1 jalapeno

•3 tbsp diced onions

•¾ tsp creamed cheese

•2 tbsp cheddar cheese

•pinch of salt

•pinch of pepper

•pinch of garlic powder

•½ tsp unsalted butter

•2 slices of Aldi's Keto Friendly Zero Carb White Bread


Directions over medium heat add sliced jalapenos and diced onions to a pan and saute for 2 minutes stirring constantly. Add cream cheese cheddar cheese, salt,
pepper, and garlic powder and continue mixing over medium low heat and cheese has melted and all ingredients have fully combined. In another pan add butter
and toast bread on one side for one minute over medium heat then flip the bread, add butter to the pan top bread with additional cheese and add jalapeno popper
cheese mixture over top. toast both sides of bread on browned to your liking 1-2 minutes and enjoy.
https://www.twitch.tv/wasabeegirl
Live on twitch to help out during qteen.
[Salmon Patties/Croquettes](https://youtu.be/3WDtmNVkQQc)

Ingredients

•6 oz canned salmon

•¼ yellow onion

•2 tsp seasoned salt

•⅛ tsp black pepper

•1 egg

•2 tbsp almond flour (1 to mix in with patties, the other to coat the outside before frying)


Directions
To a bowl add drained canned salmon, add diced yellow onion, seasoned salt, black pepper, egg, and 1 tbsp of almond flour and mix all together. Form your patties,
add the remaining almond flour to the outside of the patties. Add to a pan over medium high heat with olive oil and fry for 3 minutes on each side. Let cool and
enjoy.
[Instant Pot Mississippi Pulled Pork Roast](https://youtu.be/zFrkai_PUOY)

Ingredients

•3-4 lbs pork picnic shoulder

•1 tbsp kosher salt

•2 tsp pepper

•2 tbsp ranch seasoning

•½ yellow onion

•⅛-¼ cup pepperoncini peppers liquid

•10-12 pepperoncini peppers

•½ stick unsalted butter

•1 cup water

•1 tsp arrowroot flour

Directions
Remove the skin from pork shoulder and place inside instant pot. Season with salt, pepper, ranch seasoning, yellow onion, pepperoncini peppers with liquid as well
as unsalted butter. Mix water and arrowroot flour together to make a slurry and add to instant pot. Place lid over instant and cook for 15 mins per lb. Once finished
cooking allow natural release for 15-20 minutes. Remove from instant pot and shred meat. Option reduce the remaining liquid down in a sauce pan and pour over
top of pork. Enjoy!
Howdy! I've recently started cooking (within the last month or so) and I would love some feedback/tips, whether it's camera angles or cooking itself. I'm documenting
the journey on YouTube and having a lot of fun with it! First video is [ribeye steak tacos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZiBrccNp9pM&t=1009s) !
[Baked Cream of Chicken Smothered Pork Chops](https://youtu.be/AP_UXy_0Bds)

Ingredients

1) Pork Chops

2) Extra Virgin Olive Oil

3) Various Seasons

4) Minced Garlic

5) Red Peppers

6) Yellow Peppers

7) White Onions

8) Campbell's Cream of Chicken



Cooking Directions.

1) Preheat the oven at 350 degrees.

2) Rinse off the pork chops and pat dry.

3) Oil down your pan or glass tray with Extra Virgin Olive Oil.

4) Place the pork chops in pan and rub in the oil.

5) Apply seasonings to pork chops and rub throughout.

6) Apply the Minced Garlic on pork chops and rub throughout.

7) Add the peppers and onions on top of the pork chops.

8) Cover with aluminum foil and place in oven for 20 - 40 minutes depending on preference of crispiness.

9) Remove from the oven and pour on the Cream of Chicken.

10) Cover again with the foil, place back in oven and cook another 15 - 20 minutes.

11) Take the pork chops out and let cool a few minutes.

12) Enjoy!!!
[Spicy Ranch Thick Cut Pork Chops](https://youtu.be/RNQEGMtcsZY)

Ingredients

•2 thick cut bone in pork chops

•1 tbsp olive oil

•1 tbsp kosher salt

•1 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Spicy Seasoning

•1 tbsp Cooking With Thatown2 Ranch Seasoning

Directions
Season pork chops with oilve oil, salt, Cooking With Thatown2 Spicy and Ranch seasonings. Rub seasoning over all sides of the meat. In a oven save skillet add oil
and heat pan over medium high heat sear both sides for 2 minutes and all sides of the por chops for 30-45 seconds. Place the pan in a preheated oven at 400
degrees for 15-20 minutes until your porkchops reach your desired temperature. I pulled mine out at 150 degrees. Let rest for 10 minutes and enjoy.
[Cheese Crusted Fried Eggs and Sausage](https://youtu.be/nuJLH-lzMZk)

Ingredients

•2 sausages

•4 eggs

•¼-½ cup of cheese

•½ Roma tomato

•salt to taste

•pepper to taste


Directions
Butterfly the sausage and place them into a skillet over medium-high heat. cook both sides of the sausage for one minute and then lower the heat to low and
continue to cook flipping often until browned and cooked. In a second skillet add butter or oil to the pan over medium to medium-high heat and add in the eggs.
season with salt and pepper. Feel free to bust the yolk if you like. Add the shredded cheese and cook eggs for 2 minutes. Flip the eggs top with Roma tomato slices
additional cheese and cook for another 1-2 minutes. Flip eggs again for 30 seconds just enough to brown the cheese and enjoy.
abouth the only time i where gloves while cook is if in cutting up a hot pepper. started doing this after i cut one up washed my hands then had to rub my eye, i
quickly relized i had not washed my hands well enough.
Oh that sounds good. Reminds me of Taro Oreo bbt chiller from Bubble republic I used to get all the time. I used to call it Tareo
Thanks for saving me 20-30 bucks tho.
looks delicious, watched the video and it's amazing.
Omg. It means everything to me. It was the best show on television, and you were part of the last good season! I'll definitely check this video out.
I know this is late but here’s a response. The water doesn’t lose its heat fast, so the noodles will continue cooking. If you don’t mind really soft noodles, then yes,
this is fine. If you prefer chewier noodles, it’s better to drain them as soon as they’re done. If you’re asking about safety, then yes, they’re fine, maybe just a bit
overcooked to some snobbier gourmands.
Oh my gosh that sounds good since I love Taro as well! Lol Tareo is a great name for that combo!
Thanks so much!
Thank you :)
Hello, i am a beginner when it comes to cooking and i saw a video which said bake the potatoes and i have absolutely no ideas on how to do it in the microwave.
Please help

How do you bake potatoes in a microwave, do you pre heat the oven or not, what kind of utensils one should use while baking potatoes in a micro wave, do you
keep the utensil on a rack, can you bake potatoes without microwave if yes how ?

I have a samsung microwave
Most important:

Poke holes in potato with fork or tip of sharp knife

DO NOT USE FOIL or any METAL in microwave EVER

Potato will be VERY HOT when you take it out, put potato in microwave safe plate or bowl before cooking.
It looks like you've gotten the help you need but FYI, never run a microwave when it is empty. It will damage it somehow, I can't remember how but I'm sure you can
google it. If you have ever heard of someone pre-heating an oven, they are talking about a conventional oven.
A microwave does not require preheating - so you save yourself time there.

Poke holes in the potato with a fork. (I do it randomly around the potato, so maybe 4 stabs in different spots)

Some microwaves have a potato button. But that varies, so I won't give advice on that, aside from the button is programmed for potatoes, so it probably gives the
best cook.

5 minutes on both sides - but this depends on your potatoes size. Based on feel, it should be squeezable. If you cut into the potato, uncooked potato would be in the
middle and appear more solid. Do minute increments if you think it still needs cooking.

Other ways to bake a potato: in a toaster oven - I tend to not preheat those ovens. 300 F for 90 minutes (also need to poke holes in potato). This is the same if you
wanted to do a baked potato in a traditional oven.
I don't usually put potatoes in the microwave (though many people do since it's quicker and convenient), I just turn the oven on at 400F and poke a few holes in the
potato with a fork or knife, then stick it directly on the rack for an hour without bothering to preheat the oven. Sometimes I'll rub vegetable oil and salt on the potato
before they're done baking, the last 20 minutes or so. Really big ones can take up to 80 minutes. Putting it in the microwave makes an inferior baked potato, the
skin doesn't come out as good.
I've only seen this on one other comment, so I'm saying it again - wash the potato pretty vigoriously before you cook it. You'll be surprised how much dirt comes off
of it.

If you want some excellent step by step instructions, Alton Brown has a recipe. https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/the-baked-potato-recipe1-
1908821
Remember to also, no matter how you cook it, to wash the potato before cooking since the skin is also very tasty.
The microwave doesn’t need to pre-heat. It can’t pre-heat.

Regular ovens have a gas flame or electric element that heats up the air in the oven and also just shine heat directly onto the food. There you want to pre-heat the
air.

Microwave ovens have a ray gun that shoots microwaves into the oven with a device to scatter them around. These microwaves are not hot but when they strike the
molecules in food they flop them around which makes them get hot.

1. You can just put a potato on a plate and microwave it for about four or five minutes but it will “explode” from steam if you don’t first pierce it with a knife or fork so
the steam can escape. It won’t explode like kill you explode. It will just burst and get the inside of the microwave completely messy.

2. Then carefully turn the hot potato over and give it another four or five minutes.

https://youtu.be/VhyKrbs7Veg

The time though really depends on the size of the potato or potatoes. Where I used to live the potatoes were huge. Where I live now the potatoes are small.

They are done if when you shove a fork into them it penetrates smoothly and without much force. Like slicing butter as opposed to chopping a carrot.

Two potatoes together and double the time.

If you burn them then they are burned but if you undercook them you can put them back in for thirty second intervals until their done.

https://youtu.be/jhkl6MmNE40

You can also throw a pierced potato right on the rack in a regular oven and cook it at medium or 350F for an hour. There the time is the same no matter how many
potatoes there are.
Microwave potatoes are far inferior to oven-baked potatoes. The skins come out flabby and the insides come out rubbery.

They're fine if you're going to use them to make home fries, but that's the only reason I'd cook them in the microwave.

Otherwise bake them in the oven at 400 degrees F for one hour. Place them directly on the oven rack. Pierce them with a knife several times to prevent explosions.
Do not use aluminum foil because that will steam them and prevent the skins from crisping up.
The important thing is to poke holes in the potato, right down into the middle (otherwise they can burst).

For oven cooking, just put them on the shelf in preheated medium hot oven for at least an hour, more if they are very big. I sometimes leave them in for up to two
hours because I like the skins very crispy. It's hard to go wrong.

For the microwave, there's no preheating, just pierce them and put them in for about 8 to 10 minutes per potato, depending on size. Turn them over halfway through
so that they cook evenly. If you want to keep the skins soft, you can wrap them in kitchen paper.

Either way, you don't need any special tools or racks. Just a potato and something to pierce a hole in it to let steam out.
Do you have accesa to a conventional oven? Or is a microwave your only option?
You don't preheat a microwave. To bake/cook in the microwave poke many holes in the potato so it doesn't explode. this will allow the steam to escape without the
potato blowing up.

[How to bake a potato in the microwave](https://www.thekitchn.com/how-to-bake-a-potato-in-the-microwave-226751)

to bake a potato in the oven

preheat the oven to 425 F.

clean the potato and wrap in foil.

Once Oven is hot put potato in oven. allow it to bake at least 45 minutes. then using a towel or hot pad, gently squeeze the potato and see how soft it is. if it is not
really soft then it's not done. let it keep cooking. baked potatoes usually take 45 to 1 hour and 10 minutes. depending on how big the potato is. once it's tender
remove from the oven turn oven off, and remove foil so the skin doesn't get all soggy from the sweating potato.
As everyone else has said, bake in the oven instead of the microwave. It really is worth the wait.
But if you truly want the best baked potato ever, try it [this](https://www.thekitchn.com/martha-stewart-baked-yukon-gold-potato-23103119) way.
You can thank me later.
I have recently discovered air fryer baked potatoes. Best yet. And I'm Irish. Lol
As has been said, a baked potato in the oven is far superior. It will have a crispier skin and a fluffier interior. That being said, a microwaved potato does not have to
be bad. Here is how I do a 1 lb russet potato.

1. Wash the potato. Potatoes grow in dirt, dirt that you do not want to eat. Scrub under running water with a medium brush. Pay close attention to the nooks and
cranies.
2. Poke a bunch of holes. I have cooked a thousand potatoes in the microwave and have never had one burst open, however the holes do let out steam leading to
a potato that is drier and more ready to soak up the butter.
3. Dry the potatoes with paper towels. Rub on a thin layer of olive oil and sprinkle liberally with salt.
4. Put the potato in a paper shopping bag and fold the bag so the weight of the potato holds it close.
5. Nuke it for 8-10 minutes depending on the size of the potato and your microwave. The potato should crush when squeezed but be careful. Steam can burn.
6. Squeeze it in a few directions to break up the flesh. Cut open the top lengthwise and use a fork to break up the flesh more and stir in butter, salt, and pepper. Top
with cheese.
7. Enjoy the starchy treat.
No one else has said this, so let me take a moment to explain. The “potato eyes” need to removed, they can make you sick. The little growths on the potato that are
actually the potato trying to “root out and grow”.


How to Scrub Off or Cut Off Eyes on Potatoes


Snap off long, protruding eyes with your fingers. This will leave small spots that will be easier to remove by scrubbing or peeling.


Wash your potatoes under cold running water. ...


Shave off small eyes using a vegetable peeler. ...


Cut out large eyes with the tip of a sharp knife.



Also do not eat green potatoes . They will have a greenish hue on the skin. Those are potato’s that were harvested to early and can cause diarrhea.

3 mins on each side for medium potatoes in the microwave
I know this is cooking for beginners but pre heating a microwave.... My god that's the most amusing thing I've read all day
Then once it's cooled down, cut it in half and take out the potato filling leaving the skin. Then add butter, chives, bacon. Then put back into the skin and top with
cheese and bake again in the oven for 20 minutes for a double baked potato
Crispy baked potato skin is yummy
Seems like a reasonable mistake to me. Pre-heat oven? Why not pre-heat a microwave _oven_?

I'm going to imagine most people on the sub aren't really up on vibration frequencies of polar molecules. Or why plastics don't heat in a microwave. Or why
stoneware and earthenware heat differently.

Compared to a conventional oven, microwaves are black magic acting on properties of substances that are barely observable.
To be clear, when you say to take out the filling and add ingredients, that involves mashing up the potato filling and mixing it up with the butter and stuff before
putting it back in the skin right? Just trying to make sure it's as clear as possible for OP
I've definitely noticed that oiling potatoes at the start vs near the end makes a difference in the skin texture, the latter is crispier. Oiling at the beginning risks the
potato skin becoming leathery
thats true i guess. my inkling would be that most people are away microwaves, as an electromagnetic radiation, can only produce heat when in contact with water
molecules
Correct
So I had a ton of extra Napa cabbage to use up so I decided to follow Martha Stewart’s recipe for pickled cabbage. It called for a brine with vinegar, water, course
salt, and sugar but I used regular salt because I didn’t have the other kind. I’m thinking this is where I went wrong. Is it salvageable? It’s so salty it’s actually gross.
Also FYI this is not fermented pickled cabbage, it’s just a quick refrigerator pickle
The only solution is to dilute it down with water and vinegar. Give it a thorough mix and let it sit. that ought to save it
I’ve never made a dump cake and I was wondering if the type of cake mix makes a difference in texture for the final product or if you’ve ever made one yourself with
something other than yellow/white/chocolate. I tried a red velvet tres leches once and it was WAY too moist and hope this is different. (I.e. cherry cake mix and
cherry pie filling)
Can I put the rice into the pan first then add the tomato sauce to mix? No other ingredients included
If you want like a fried rice, you should put rice first in the pan with some vegetable oil and fry for 2-3 minutes. It will create more flavour for the dish.
So cheese is great and I like cheese dishes. But stuff like mac and cheese typically is better with shredded cheese for more even cheese spread.

The problem? It...takes a while to grate cheese. Like I've started doing it in the past, spent a while doing it, gotten like a cup of cheese and then looked at the recipe
which is often like 4-5 cups of cheese and I think "I have to do this 3-4 more times!?!?" XD.
I feel like you might have a bad shredder. I can shred about 2-3 cups of cheese in maybe three minutes? With my small handheld shredder.

You could try using a food processor, but that's probably longer in clean up then what you're doing now.
you could always try putting your cheese in the freezer prior to shredding. it doesn't need to be completely frozen like ice. i usually put mine in when i start cooking
and by the time i need the cheese it's usually solid enough. this prevents the cheese from being so flexible/crumbly and is easier on your grater and hands.
I have a large box grater and it can shred 4 cups of cheese in 5-10 minutes. It is what it is. Breathe. Do a zen meditation, listen to Dance on a Volcano by Genesis,
or something
If a food processor is too expensive. You can buy a rotary cheese grater. It is very fast compared to shredding by hand and the cleanup is very easy. Here is the
Amazon link for the one I have and use.
Geedel Rotary Cheese Grater, Kitchen Mandoline Vegetable Slicer with 3 Interchangeable Blades, Easy to Clean Rotary Grater Slicer for Fruit, Vegetables, Nuts
https://www.amazon.com/dp/B07P6G5L35/ref=cm_sw_r_apan_glt_fabc_49ZGH7V574F49VW1PQB6?psc=1
Child labor.
Do you have a kitchen aid mixer? If so get the grater attachments, game changer for shredding a lot of cheese.
It's worth noting that tools like box graters, flat graters, and microplanes are disposable. When they get dull you can't sharpen them (well you can but takes forever).
How long? How often do you use them? I get five or six years out of a box grater, a little longer from a microplane.

If it's taking "a while" to grate just a cup of cheese you may be due for a new box grater.
The easiest way is indeed to buy pre-shredded, which is inferior in quality and coated with anti-clumping substances that negatively affect texture, flavor, and
melting properties.

The *second* easiest way is to buy a food processor with a grater attachment. A good food processor can turn a 10 minute task into a four second task.
Partially freeze the cheese and use a standard box grater, unless you really wan to wash out a food processor.
I think that using a food processor with a grater attachment is the fastest and easiest. Followed by rotary style graters.
What is a while? A box grater will shred a cup of cheddar in a minute.
If I have a hard cheese like parmesan I do it in the food processor. It will also do cheddar in a flash.

It's not so great with soft cheeses like mozzarella. You have to put your cheese in the freezer for 30 minutes to make it hard enough for the processor to grate.
I just dice cheese very very finely with a large lightly oiled chef’s knife.
Buying pre-shredded is usually easiest
My Cuisinart processor, with a grater blade is a lifesaver for me when it comes to grating.
We shred lots of cheese for homemade Mac and cheese (everyone demands me bring it to family/friend gatherings)

First we bought a roasted style, ultimately got an attachment for our kitchen aid (same idea as the food processor blade ppl are mentioning)

For easy clean up, soak in water + baking soda and the cheese just rinses right off
If you use a lot of cheese you can go ahead and shred a large amount with a food processor or whatever and then freeze for future use. The convenience of
shredded cheese without being factory shredded. Also if you lightly spray the blades with cooking spray it rub with a small amount of oil it will be easier to clean.
Sometimes I'll put a large section of plastic wrap on the counter or table and then shred my cheese on it and it allows me to be a bit messier. Not sure if that will
make it easier for you though but it helps me.
If you need a lot often get a cheap food processor with a grating blade that sits on top of the reservoir.
You have a bad shredder, I use to think the same, we lost our shredder so had to buy a new bigger one and omg it shredded like 10 times as fast and now I find it
super quick and easy.
Food processor with a shredding blade. Will give you 4-5 cups of cheese in a couple of minutes.
Against your teeth
I got the KitchenAid grater attachment, which I thought was good value only because I already had the mixer. +1 to several comments here saying to put mozzarella
in the freezer for a bit first.

Short of that I was also pretty happy with my oxo box grater. I can fill the box with probably 2 solid minutes of grating. Probably 20ish dollars well spent if you like
using that much cheese. But yeah, these are just blades you can’t sharpen. Not gonna last forever.

What sort of cheese grater do you have?
There are appliances that can do this. I'm not sure what they're called exactly, because I use a 40-year-old Oster brand kitchen center that's kind of an all-in-one
thing. But you can just feed a block of cheese into it and it shreds it in like 5 seconds. I'm sure the same things exist now, probably would just have to look up
"electric slicer shredder" or something.
Salad shooter- check your local thrift store, I always see them here.
I dont have a dishwasher, so cleaning my [simple grater](https://www.webstaurantstore.com/tablecraft-sg206bh-stainless-steel-flat-grater/808SG206BH.html) was a
lot more convenient for me.

Then I had a surgery which left me with only one arm for 2 months. So I got a [Presto Salad Shooter](https://www.google.com/search?
q=salad+shooter&oq=salad&aqs=chrome.4.69i57j69i59j35i39j0i67l2.4676j0j4&client=ms-android-verizon&sourceid=chrome-mobile&ie=UTF-
8#imgrc=l80vV6C6aFlxeM)

Smaller than a food processor, but way easier than grating by hand. I love this thing. I'm in Wisconsin, so every meal has some sort of cheese involvement [only
slightly exaggerating]. Potatoes and carrots are done in a breeze. Only a few pieces to wash up.

That's my recommendation anyways.
Think of grating cheese or chopping vegetables or kneading bread as the labour you need to put in to earn your meal. Food isn’t meant to be fast and easy,
although the current western diet would have us believe otherwise. I’ve learned to take great pleasure in preparing all the ingredients for my food. There are so
many benefits to doing this. When I was in Italy I observed what hard work it was for the Nonnas to produce such beautiful food and this old lady tells me that’s why
Italian women aren’t fat - slow food and food prep is a vital part of eating well.
Also there are a number of cheese graters which will make things a bit easier, the right tools in the kitchen will make a big difference to how much you will enjoy
meal preparation. Good luck and have fun!
A big, tall cheese grater should work just fine. If you'd rather use a food processor, do this: use the normal blade (the grate attachment will work, but it'll take longer
and be more meticulous), cut your cheese in cubes about the size of an ice cube, then freeze the cubes for about 20 minutes. You don't want them completely
frozen, but about halfway there. Then toss them in the processor. Probably don't want to fill the processor more than half, so do it in batches. Since the cheese is
nice and firm/cold, it'll shred up nicely instead of clumping into cheese mess. If you ever want to grind your own meat, follow the exact same process, just replace
cheese with beef cubes or whatever meat you want. Hope this helps!
I'm just going to back up a bit - what are you cooking that requires 5 cups of cheese? That is a whole lot of cheese.

Maybe make the recipe smaller?
I tried using the food processor with the cheese grater attachment to create some cheese for pizza a couple of weeks ago. It did go quite quickly, however the
cheese (just regular cheapo pizza mozzarella) did tend to get stuck between the blade and the cover. This would temporarily jam the processor and I'd have to take
the lid off to clean out the jammed chunks of cheese. It could just be that I have a crappy food processor (which is definitely true), but the smaller the gap between
the blade and the cover, the better time you'll probably have with it.

Incidentally, be really careful with those blades. I accidentally dragged the palm of my thumb across it, and a perfect shred of "cheese" came off the palm of my
hand. It's healing nicely, but it wasn't very much fun.
> but that's probably longer in clean up then what you're doing now.

I disagree with this. I do a lot of Italian cooking, and I find that even factoring in cleanup a food processor is significantly faster than grating by hand.
can do the same with mine two. mine is 4 sided two different shred size and one slicer, and the last side has nothing.
Came here to say this. I bought one and will never go back.
My Rotary Cheese Grater is the best kitchen gadget I have gotten in a long time. I can grate a whole block of cheese in a minute. Best time saver. When I am done I
just rinse it and throw it into the dishwasher for easy clean up.
Agreed!!! It is so fast and easy
I see you too learned to cook the same place my mother did.
My processor bowl, lid and blade go in the dishwasher.
**While is a word in the English language that functions both as a noun and as a subordinating conjunction. Its meaning varies largely based on its intended
function, position in the phrase and even the writer or speaker's regional dialect.**

More details here: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/While>



*This comment was left automatically (by a bot). If I don't get this right, don't get mad at me, I'm still learning!*

[^(opt out)](https://www.reddit.com/r/wikipedia_answer_bot/comments/ozztfy/post_for_opting_out/) ^(|) [^(report/suggest)]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/wikipedia_answer_bot) ^(|) [^(GitHub)](https://github.com/TheBugYouCantFix/wiki-reddit-bot)
>If I have a hard cheese like parmesan I do it in the food processor

For *hard* cheeses, a blender works really well too, and is generally easier to clean than a food processor, but you can't use it on anything soft.

You end up with Kraft parm consistency (which I generally prefer anyway). I'm a big fan of blender parm.
Please don't use pre-shredded cheese in anything saucy. Due to the cellulose added to prevent sticking, it frequently makes the gritty when melted.
Mozza is a pain in the ass due to the moisture content. A good hand grater will probably do you better with mozza.
I don't know much about food processors but I like to lather some butter/oil on my handheld cheese grater before grating cheese. That way the cheese doesn't stick
to the grater at all.
I've heard that some people freeze their mozzarella for a little bit to firm it up for easier shredding. I've not tried it but it might help prevent chunks from breaking off
and getting stuck
Softer cheeses like mozzarella, especially fresh mozzarella don't do well in the food processor. You can stick it in the freezer for a bit to firm up (I'm talking like 20
minutes) most other cheeses do just fine in the food processor in my experience.
Cold cheese helps -- like really cold. Pop in the freezer for 20-30 minutes before hitting with the food processor.

It also helps to chunk the mozz and shred it alongside a harder cheese; just pop them in the shoot together. For whatever reason that limits jams.

It's still the fastest and easiest way to do things, but I won't break one out for less than a few cups. Below that and a box grater wins due to cleanup time.

Get you a kevlar glove for the kitchen. I use that for any sort of shredding or slicing with a mandolin. Most underrated kitchen purchase ever.
I actually prefer the fine shredding blade to any other blade. I never use the coarse shredding blade that came with the processor.

It's perfect for shredded carrots and zucchini for baking and salads, too.
Oh wow I didn’t know that! Thank you :)
This isn't true nor avoidable everywhere. If I didn't buy shredded cheese, I'd have less variety in cheeses. I can get a small, expensive imported block of English
cheddar or a bag of shredded stuff. I cannot find blocks of mozzarella in the stores here.

Guess which I go with? Yup, shredded.

But on the other hand, the shredded cheese here is more... clumpy? Sticks together easier? Probably because instead of something like cellulose, the shredded
cheese here has potato starch, which definitely doesn't make sauces gritty.
Omg...why did this not occur to me sooner?? Thanks for the tip!
For me, I prefer more granular consistency for hard cheeses rather than shreds.

But for shredded, I only have one size with my processer so I don't have any choice for size :/
I mean, everyone speaks with authority, but if you've never noticed, is it really that big a deal?
Oh yeah I use Tillamook shredded cheese when I'm feeling fancy and thought it clumped less because of the thick shreds... turns out it also uses potato starch
You can buy extra blades on eBay, Amazon, etc.

[Example](https://www.ebay.com/itm/165093284094?hash=item26705398fe:g:ta8AAOSw7EVhUKh5)

Preferred consistency of cheeses is definitely a personal choice, though.
It can be. Preshredded cheese often turns into a rubbery goo mix, that won't blend.
Pre-shredded doesn't really melt and brown the same way self-shredded cheese does, even when it's the same brand and product line.
title says all, what can I cook so this dijon mustard doesn't go to waste?
I keep a jar on hand for homemade vinaigrette salad dressings!

This is the dressing I love to make

1/3 cup olive oil

3 tablespoons red wine vinegar

1 teaspoon sugar

1 clove garlic, finely minced

1 teaspoon dijon mustard

1 teaspoon italian seasoning

½ teaspoon salt
You can make a sandwich.

It’s mustard. It will last forever until you use it up so it won’t go to waste.
You're going to need a 3 pound rack of lamb.

https://altonbrown.com/recipes/crown-roast-of-lamb/

This is a surprisingly easy recipe. Follow it carefully and you'll get amazing results!
weird. there was similar post a few days ago….

scrambled eggs, potato salad, macaroni and cheese, tuna salad, scalloped potatoes, honey-dijon salad dressing, or it can be used in place of wasabi or
horseradish for sushi, gimbap, and roast beef.

Good for UK style melted cheese on toast (toasties) or welsh rarebit.

also good on hamburgers, chicken breast, crab cakes, tuna croquettes, and tofu cutlets. it’s fancy on hot dogs with tomato slices and celery salt.
Kings hawaiian sliders, honey ham, swiss cheese, dijon mustard, butter on top, bake it for about 20 mins. So good.
I don't think mustard good bad. Put a squirt of it in marinades or sauce or chili to give it a little jenesaisquoi.
I like to put it on turkey sandwiches
It may sound odd, but I add a tablespoon or so to some of my cream-based soups. Cream of wild rice, or broccoli cheddar, it adds a little tang to the soup that gives
a pleasant surprise.
Dijon + Honey makes a pretty good honey mustard, can always add some horseradish to spice it up.

If I’m lazy I’ll sometimes just chop up some potatoes and Brussels sprouts and toss them on a sheet pan with a couple sausages. Once they’ve cooked a bit mix
Dijon mustard with some honey, drizzle it on top, and let them cook the rest of the way
Make Steak Dianne or Honey Mustard Chicken.
Hotdogs: put on buns- add sauerkraut and mustard.
Sometimes when I make tuna salad using canned tuna and mayo I add deli mustard.
Deli style sandwiches.
Chicken salad.
Egg salad.
Dressings.
Potato salad.
Adding a light smear to a grilled cheese sandwich is delightful. If you want to wow company at lunch, make a grilled ham and cheese with a little Dijon mustard and
a sprinkle of your favorite fries herb in the sandwich. Dressing up a grilled sandwich just a little makes it feel like something you might get at a restaurant.
Excellent pan sauce for chicken or broccoli or fish or just about anything else you’ve sautéed.

Add some butter in the pan...add some Dijon, lemon juice, salt and pepper...plus a little chicken stock. Sometimes we add a few capers.
I eat mustard on sandwiches
1/2 cup Mayo
1/2 cup Dijon
1 tsp dill weed (dried is fine but I like fresh and use more)
1/3 cup buttermilk or sour cream

Pour over broiled/baked salmon, also good on Swiss burgers
You can make a sauce to cook any meat or fish in
Two recipes I love come to mind.

[Chef John's Sweet, Hot Mustard Chicken Thighs](https://www.allrecipes.com/video/3565/sweet-hot-mustard-chicken-thighs/).

[Chef John's Honey-Glazed Ham](https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/240752/chef-johns-honey-glazed-ham/).

The thing about cooking with mustard, albeit regular or dijon, is that under heat, a lot of the mustard like flavor really mellows out into this somewhat savory addition.
It's worth trying on something you might be baking or grilling for that reason.
Just leave it in your fridge it will last quite a while
Use as much as you want but I’ve never had mustard spoil on me *ever* so res assured it will keep and extremely long time so don’t feel pressured to use it up
quickly.
Honey mustard chicken. 1c honey, 1 c Dijon mustard, 1.5 Tbsp paprika, 2 tsp pepper, 2 tsp parsley and 2 tsp oregano. Grill, cast iron, just don’t bake it. Enjoy
Add a spoonful to the eggs when you make quiche.
Mix 1:1 with apple cider vinegar, spread over a pork loin, roast.
Sandwiches?
Other than using it as a condiment on a sandwich which is probably your best bet to regularly use it up, a nice beef
Stroganoff can use a tablespoon or two of it.
There’s a sauce for pork chops that I love. Pan fry your chops, I like to brown them then finish in a moderate oven. Put a generous tsp of Dijon in the pan, and whisk
in a cup or so of apple cider or apple juice. Bring to a simmer for a few minutes then whisk in a T of butter. It’s really good over the roasted sweet potatoes that I like
to make with pork chops too. Increase the amounts to make more sauce as you like.
Don't worry, keep it on hand for a while. There are PLENTY of opportunities to use a little Dijon. Deviled eggs, baked ham... almost anything that uses regular
yellow mustard can be kicked up a notch with Dijon.
Tomatoes mustard pie :

Put puff pastry dough in a pie plate. Make holes with a fork, and put it in the oven (200⁰C) for 10-15min.

In the meantime, slice the tomatoes (3-4 tomatoes).

Take the dough out of the oven, spread mustard evenly everywhere.

Add the tomatoes. Add a bit of olive oil on top, dry oregano, salt and pepper to taste. In the oven (180⁰C) for 30min.

Serve with a salad (can use the mustard for a vinaigrette)
Eat sausages
Mash a few tablespoons of soft butter with a clove or two of minced garlic and a tablespoon of Dijon mustard.

Salt and pepper a couple of pork tenderloins and brown them in oil in a frying pan on both sides. Spread the mustard mixture on top and roast them for 20-25
minutes at 425 degrees F.

Makes dinner for one night and lunch for the next couple of days at my house (2 adults).
Chef John's individual Beef Wellington! Easy and delicious, and since you only use 2 tablespoons at a time you can make it again and again! It came out amazing
for me so I know it's foolproof!

Try it!

<all groupies now bow down to Chef John>
Some bomb ass ham sandwiches!
Beef Stroganoff is a great use, although it'll only need a small amount there too.

https://www.recipetineats.com/beef-stroganoff/
I actually put just a smidge in my homemade mashed potatoes and it adds some complexity without really being detectable.
Sandwiches, glorious sandwiches
Pork chops with dijon cream sauce
Awesome recipe I stole from my sister. Make a sauce for salmon, equal parts mustard and teriyaki sauce! I swear you will never go back!
Deviled eggs

Egg salad sandwich

Scalloped potatoes

Mac and cheese

Ham sandwiches

Really eggs, potatoes, cheese and ham are common complimentary with mustard.

A nice sandwich.
Smear some all over some boneless pork chops, sprinkle salt, pepper, and a little smoked paprika on them (or whatever herbs and spices you like) then cover in
panko bread crumbs. Bake until done.

You can also use it for chicken cordon bleu. Butterfly some chicken breasts. Spread the Dijon on the inside then add deli ham and Swiss. Close up the chicken
breasts making a chicken ham and Swiss sandwich. You can then either spread more Dijon on the outside and cover in panko or dredge the chicken in a little flour
then egg and finally the panko. Bake until done. (Yes this is traditionally pounded thin and then rolled which is a PITA to keep together and bread so I go the lazy
way of butterfly and fold the chicken around it. It’s food not art)
Also, mustard keeps, for 6 months to a year in the refrigerator. So feel free to use it however there is no need to rush.
Deviled eggs!
It won't go bad u moron
Here we go again with another surplus of food post
I do this but instead of red wine vinegar I use lemon juice and make a lemon vinaigrette :o
I second this djion mustard is great for lots of salad dressings.

Also you can combine it with chicken as some kimd of marinade I think.
Came here to say the same thing
Exactly this.

"So it doesn't go to waste"

Use in within, what, 5ish years?
This is good I’ve made it
Marco Pierre White has a good recipe for [lamb with dijon mustard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8rLigOut-bY) as well.
Babish has a mac n cheese recipe with Dijon Mustard I swear by
How do you use it in scrambled eggs? When beating the eggs or just on top afterwards?
Dijon + honey + olive oil. Bit of salt. Whisk it all up. Amazing on...everything!

PS Happy Cake Day!
Chef John is a god!
I actually putteth just a smidge in mine own homemade did mash potatoes and t adds some complexity without very much being detectable

***



^(I am a bot and I swapp'd some of thy words with Shakespeare words.)

Commands: `!ShakespeareInsult`, `!fordo`, `!optout`
So many good variations you can make once you get down a basic recipe I love it
Put a dab in before beating the eggs.
His stuff is very easy to follow and I will say, many of them are in my rotation these days. Those chicken thighs are AWESOME.
Trying this tomorrow, thank you
Cool. Not too much… you want to add some zing but not overwhelm. Maybe 1/4-1/2 teaspoon per egg?
I have most of the cooking basic necessities, but have no idea on what to make. Help please and thank you!

*I combined many of your suggestions for round one on the turnips, and tonight I made a delicious turnip soup. I threw one small red onion and a white one with the
turnips and a butter and oil saute base. Four cups chicken stock, 1 tsp fresh rosemary, salt, pepper. Brought to a boil and then pureed. Topped with oil tossed
greens.

8/10 and thank you for the ideas. Tomorrow I think cabbage steaks are in order

Keep the ideas coming. I've got enough to make them all!
Cabbage can be shaved to make cabbage slaw by just adding a bit of vinegar, salt and pepper (can actually be done without the vinegar but it gives great flavor)
and then just let it sit for a few minutes. Add it to burgers or fried chicken sandwiches.

You can also shave some cabbage and add it to ground chicken or ground pork for the filling for steamed or pan fried dumplings. I eyeball it but usually I put in a
tablespoon of oyster sauce, white and black pepper, salt, some shaved cabbage, a pinch is sugar, 1 egg and 1 tsp of fish sauce. Mix all together then add to your
dumpling or wonton wrappers.
You can ferment

https://www.foodnetwork.com/topics/sauerkraut-recipes

BBQ or
https://www.tasteofhome.com/recipes/grilled-cabbage/


airfry

https://tastyairfryerrecipes.com/air-fryer-cabbage-recipe/

Cabbage and apple fry


https://www.theseasonedmom.com/fried-cabbage/

I like to add cabbage to soups, ramen, etc. It provides additional fiber and can aid feeling satisfied after eating a light meal.
Turnips are delicious and simple roasted! (As long as you like turnips, of course)

[This recipe](https://www.fromachefskitchen.com/parmesan-crusted-crushed-turnips/) is really good

I grew up eating them mashed, like potatoes.

The greens are good used like collared greens or other similar greens. I think they’re good steamed, in soups, slow cooked with bacon/ham, and in stir fries

[This recipe](https://www.cookinglight.com/recipes/braised-turnips-greens) is amazing and uses both the turnip root and greens.

Make sure you peel them, I think the skin is very bitter and tough
Braised cabbage is absolutely delicious. There are a bunch of different variations for each culture, but I particularly love Asian-style braised cabbage. One
especially fun version is [Mille-Feuille Nabe](https://themissinglokness.com/2016/12/21/mille-feuille-nabe/).
I love cabbage steaks. Slice them into rolls, brush with oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper. I add garlic and chili flakes if I'm in the mood. Stick them in a 400
degree oven for 20 - 30 minutes until the edges are all crispy. Squeeze some lemon juice over them when they are out of the oven.
Sautéed, shaved cabbage is great to add to noodle dishes! The Bon Appetit recipe for "Stir-Fried Udon With Pork and Scallions" is fantastic and you can definitely
use up lots of cabbage there. As others said, roasted turnips are great - I like them with roasted carrots and potatoes as well.
Cabbage rolls! You can also cut small strips of cabbage and cook them with bacon.

Turnips can be great if they're roasted in the oven. Same way as you'd roast carrots. Or mashed, although I prefer roasted.
Cabbage is wonderful stir-fried. If you have some bacon or bacon grease it is really good fried in that with just salt & pepper. You can also stir in a can of tomatoes.
You can also slice it and cook it in the oven with salt & pepper.
Place turnips and their greens in the bottom of a broiler pan. Lightly oil it first. Sprinkle with salt. Put the top on the pan, lay out 5 or 6 chicken thighs seasoned with
salt and pepper. Place in 500 degree oven for 15-20 minutes, til chicken has a nice golden color. Reduce heat to 350, cook another 20-25 minutes til chicken is
done. All the juices and fat from the chicken drips down and makes the turnips super flavorful.

Probably not something you should eat often, but it's so rich and yummy...one of my favorite things to make. You can do it with just about any vegetable.
One of my favorites is to cook up an onion until it's nice and soft and starting to brown, then a half head of cabbage and some chicken stock. Cook it like this for a
while, with the stock just simmering gently. You might have to add more stock, keep cooking until the cabbage is nice and teder, then at the end put a few
tablespoon of butter. It usually takes about 30 to 45 minutes to get the cabbage where I like it.


To go along with that, get your favorite kielbasa, cut it into 4 sections, then halve each section lengthwise and put them in a pan, cut side down, to get nice and
crispy.

Serve on top of the cabbage. Super easy, pretty quick and really yummy in my opinion.
Cabbage and noodles. Google it and a bunch of recipes will pop up. It’s super easy with limited ingredients. Don’t substitute the egg noodles though, or use egg-
free ribbons from Walmart if you are egg free.

Or just quarter the cabbage and roast with some olive oil and salt/pepper. Get it a nice char on it.
Beef stew, egg rolls, stir fry, cabbage rolls ...
Southern style is take the greens off the turnip roots and wash VERY well. lots of sand and dirt on the greens. Then dice up the turnips. Get a big pot of water and
add some chicken boullion or maggi or stock and throw in a couple of ham hocks or smoked neck bones or smoked turkey wings and add the greens and turnips.
Cook at least an hour. Some people will add a hot chili pepper or onions to the pot. Eat the greens with some fried cornbread. YUMMY. the liquid is called pot likker
and has tons of vitamins in it. Take the pot likker and put it in a cup or bowl and crumble the cornbread in it and eat it. It can't be the sweet kind though. Cabbage
the southern way is to fry it with some onions in bacon grease in a cast iron skillet or any skillet if you don't have cast iron. No water added and it gets a small
amount of char on it but it is the bacon grease that makes it. add salt.
I make "fries" with turnips as a healthier alternative to potatoes. You can bake them with a little bit of olive oil until they're crispy and then eat them with your favorite
dipping sauce

Cabbage slaw is amazing, and it can also be used in pretty much any asian broth or stir fry dish. Also pickling it for kimchi? SOOOO good
Use turnips in place of potatoes in stews
Go eastern European for some Haluski: basically buttered noodles and cabbage. Comfort food for me and pretty simple

https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/220716/haluski-cabbage-and-noodles/
Fried cabbage is delicious! Slice the head into thick, like 1/4" to 1/2" thick slices, heat up some oil in your skillet and fry. Season as you cook -I like salt, pepper, and
a sprinkle of cayenne.
This is one of my favorite things to eat with cornbread and fresh sliced tomatoes.
Also, shred the cabbage and use with ramen noodles. (I get the shredded coleslaw bag at store)
Steam your raw cabbage on top of the noodles.
I put noodle and then cabbage in bowl, pour over my boiling water, and cover tightly about 5 mins and it's done
And if you are adventurous and willing to learn an freaking awesome meal then go for CABBAGE ROLLS.
Cabbage rolls are my absolute favorite meal from childhood! Damn delicious.
My auntie would make them for a family gathering a few times a year, and these things were soooo good!
Yummy!
Recently ended up with a lot of extra cabbage as well. It's surprisingly good with eggs - in just a scramble with some shredded potato or in a breakfast sandwich.
Also good with savory pancakes.
Thinly slice your cabbage, dry it and fry it with bacon! Or make some borscht.

The leafy greens from your beets can be braised and will turn out delicious.
Both cabbage and turnips work well in Korean side dishes. Maangchi has video recipes for Tongbeachu-Kimchi (Traditional) and Musaengchae (white radish salad)
Ethiopian cabbage! Sautee it with carrots and potatoes and turmeric and cumin in a lot of good olive oil

I use [this](https://www.allrecipes.com/recipe/152937/ethiopian-cabbage-dish/) recipe but I increase the seasoning. It's good with ethiopian injera bread, but if you
can't get that where you are then it pairs well with with any good bread :)
Gyoza maybe? It uses cabbage. They freeze well.
With copious amounts of cabbage, make copious amounts of coleslaw! My favorite recipe:

half a head of green cabbage, finely shredded
half a red onion, very thinly sliced
1 medium carrot, grated

(Lots of other things would work well, too: radish, apple, fennel...)

*Dressing:*
1/2 cup apple cider vinegar or rice vinegar
2 tbsp vegetable oil
1/4 - 1/2 cup sugar (to taste; I only use 1/4)
1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp ground or whole celery seed
1/2 tsp dry mustard
1/4 - 1/2 tsp black pepper
Save the greens and waste for ramen broth!
Pickled cabbage is very nice! Just put some vinegar (apple works well) in a pot and start bringing it up to a boil. Then throw in whatever spices and such you like.
Some good ones would be: while pepper corns, some salt, dehydrated herbs like dill, star anise, or whatever sounds nice to you. If you have that much, you can do
experiment all you like! Cut up/shred the cabbage and pop in a jar, then submerge in your boiling vinegar mix. That's it! Wait until it cools down and you've got some
lovely pickled cabbage that'll last a darn long time
Oh look, another post with a massive amount of food. This shit getting sus
Corned beef and cabbage is the obvious answer. I also make corned beef and cabbage soup with the leftovers.
You could make a turnip soup with shallots and chicken stock if you have that available.
Sounds good! Thank you for the ideas.
Wow these are some great ideas that I did not consider.
I just started eating spicy Korean kimchi. I'm surprised to find I really like it. I got mine from Whole Foods. But the recipes on the internet make it seem really easy
to make - kind of like brine fermented pickles. You might try that with the cabbage. You might try picking the other vegetables as well.
I am absolutely going to try that second recipe. Sounds like a good simple place to start. Thank you.
This looks very cabbage heavy, which is great because I have several heavy cabbages lol

I will have to add this to the list, thanks!
I am loving these diverse ideas that sound absolutely delicious. Thank you I will definitely have to try cabbage steaks.
Cabbage and tomatoes pair..mmm you are giving me a lot of tasty ideas. I wonder if I could make a cabbage spaghetti?
This sounds good! Added to the list.
This sounds great. I am going to try this. Thanks!
I love this idea. Will definitely try the fried cabbage. thanks!
I have never been properly introduced to Ethiopian food, and this sounds like a wonderful opportunity. Thank you.
It's harvesting season in the US. Lots of people with extra vegetables right now.

Or perhaps I represent big turnip
If you go the pan fried dumpling route, I highly recommend the method for removing water from cabbage described [here.](https://www.seriouseats.com/how-to-
make-japanese-gyoza-dumplings) It takes a little elbow grease to really squeeze out as much water as you can, but it makes the filling much nicer and less mushy!
That’s why I really like this sub. Idea sharing is top shelf
I think it's worth a try
Thank you I will take it into consideration
I like your attitude.
I would like to share a homemade soft strawberry cake roll recipe. It is a perfect dessert for both kids and adults! Try it out, you won’t regret it!

View the recipe here: [https://www.myweekendplan.asia/soft-strawberry-cake-roll-recipe/](https://www.myweekendplan.asia/soft-strawberry-cake-roll-recipe/)
I am going thru mine and mom's (old) spices. I need to ditch ALOT of them. What, idk 10 basic spices should I have on hand?
I ordered garlic powder, onion powder, paprika, chili powder.
Granted I don't use much, but I would if I had them. Heck a huge bottle is like 5.00 on Amazon
I cannot find onion powder anywhere out here, is what started this!
Someone has ransacked them
Those four are great basics. I keep a dried minced onion too.

Crushed red pepper flakes are good to have on hand, cayenne too, for adding heat.

Parsley is great, and can be added to almost anything

If there is a particular cuisine you cook a lot, find staples for it. Cumin is found in a lot of Mexican and Indian dishes, i go through a lot of it.
Dill is good for a lot of things. Curry powder can be good for curries, devilled eggs, etc. Italian herb mix is pretty versatile if it needs to be. And chicken/vegetable
stock.
Are they in [glass bottles](https://cdn11.bigcommerce.com/s-xizoo/product_images/sbimages/productimages1/spice-herb-map-10-17-17.jpg) or tins? If so, dump
contents, wash, dry and keep the containers for refills.


What stores do you have near you?

If you are near an urban area, I would bet that there is a place you can buy spices in bulk. Aside from natural food stores, larger locations of Whole foods had bulk
spices in the before times. Alternatively, refill bags from south/east/southeast Asian markets tend to be inexpensive and (usually but not always) have a high
turnover (meaning they are usually fresh).

Aldi, Trader Joe's, and Lidl have decent jarred spices and blends that are quite inexpensive (Aldi even has organic selections). Penzey's has very high-quality
spices and blends, but they tend to be more expensive (though /r/Penzeys always gives a heads up on promotions). Patel Bros

As for WHAT spices do you need, it depends on what types of food you are cooking: what cuisines do you usually cook? Indian vs. Italian vs. Chinese vs. Mexican
would require different spices.
Garlic powder or onion powder. Not garlic salt, that’s garlic powder with salt mixed in. Thyme is nice to have on hand for a lot of recipes, especially with beef. Chili
powder, cayenne, someone already said cumin, you’ve got oregano. Rosemary is good, especially with garlic and olive oil on a pork roast. Cinnamon is handy in
small amounts if you like things like Kafka or carnitas.

Edit: Chinese five spice will improve a lot of your Asian recipes, and garam masala will let you make a few Indian things. Also turmeric and curry. I could go on all
night.
I personally love lox on a bagel so I keep dried dill in my pantry and mix it into my cream cheese. Absolutely delicious!

(Excluding the ones you mentioned in your post): Red pepper flakes, dried oregano, dried basil, cinnamon, sea salt and kosher salt, cumin if you make Mexican
dishes, peppercorns to use in a pepper grinder, everything bagel seasoning, bouillon cubes (or the vegan version from Trader Joe’s), and bay leaves.
My quick grab spices are oregano, basil, dill, rubbed sage, thyme, celery flakes(home made-I make a Lot of soup). The rest are onion and garlic powder, cayenne,
red pepper flakes, parsley flakes, mustard powder, Rosemary.
Oregano
I always have garlic powder, cumin, cinnamon, black pepper, basil leaves, dill seeds, and turmeric.
Depends on what you like to cook really. I have about 3 different flavor profiles I rotate through regularly so most of my spices are based around those. I also bake
a lot as a hobby so I have a lot of spices that are probably less common to keep otherwise.

For example I do a lot of soups, especially as the weather cools down, so I always have bay leaves. I love a lot of Mexican/Tex Mex type foods so I've always got
cumin, smoked paprika, a couple different kinds of chili powder, and cayenne for a little bit of a kick. I've also discovered I really like throwing red pepper flakes into
all kinds of things.
Once you find some spices that you enjoy using regularly, consider buying then fresh. Fresh herbs are much more flavorful and can be cut up to different sizes so
they will add a lot of texture to the dishes you make.
I LOVE Italian seasoning but it’s usually not cheap
Not sure if you have a Sprouts by you but I buy their spices in the bulk section and it’s way cheaper. Keep the old bottles of your moms spice jars, wash, and refill
with the new stuff. Also, I have some recipes that call for spices that I rarely ever use (like Cardamom) so I just buy like a tablespoons worth at sprouts at it costs
like $0.25.

I mostly use cumin because I cook a lot of Mexican dishes, but also garlic and onion powders, chili powder, and oregano are probably the ones I go through the
most.
ppl always recommend specific spices but unless you're following recipes. Instinctually you'd probably don't know what goes good with what. So I recommend trying
ready made spice blends. If you see something that sounds good like (lemon garlic herb) or (adobo) try looking for 1-2 of those to add.
Oh thanks!!!
Where would I find decent Mexican dishes, pinterest? Ugh, that drives me nuts all those ads
Yes! Thanks so
Thanks! I forgot a out bulk buy.
Thanks!
Perfect!!!! Thanks!
>personally love lox on a bagel so I keep dried dill in my pantry and mix it into my cream cheese. Absolutely delicious!

That's such a good idea about the dill. I think I'd love that too. :D
Thanks!
Thanks. Got that bad boy on hand. Is a tad old, but when I rub it between my hands to wake it up, is good.
This works. Thanks
OK. Yes. I need to try mexican
OK, True. Ty!
No we don't. I've not noticed any stores with bulk spices ever here.
OK, thanks. Just looking to spice up, my spices
I watch YouTube videos. You can find a lot of authentic recipes and they show you the little tips and tricks
Mixing cream cheese with dill or fresh cut scallions really is a game changer in terms of flavor!
YOu can use Rosemary powder too, BUT, not so easy to find and Not a really long shelf life.
You can save a ton of money next growing season and grow & grind your own. Dehydrate and use a coffee grinder. Even if you don’t have space, at least you can
buy fresh in season and go to town. I even grind up dehydrated mushrooms.

I reuse small glass jars and have a paint brush and fuel to make it an easy mess free process.
OK. Thanks.
I use my coffee grinder to whip up my own dehydrated/dried garden herbs. I also buy whole seeds and grind. I even grind rice to use as a thickening agent.
Powder, wow.
I do. I do Oregon, mint and I have more basil then god has angels
I used to grind up whole peppercorns to use at my soup kitchen since they never had ground pepper. Until the neighbors started to complain about the noise.
Use this thread to discuss whatever game you've been playing lately: old or new, AAA or indie, on any platform between Atari and XBox. Please don't just list off the
games you're playing in your comment. Elaborate with your thoughts on the games and make it easier for other users to find what game you're talking about by
putting the title in **bold**.

Also, please make sure to use spoiler tags if you're revealing anything about a game's plot that may significantly impact another player's experience who has not
played the game yet, no matter how retro or recent the game is. You can find instructions on how to do so in the subreddit sidebar.

This thread is set to sort comments by 'new' on default.

**Obligatory Advertisements**

For a subreddit devoted to this type of discussion during the rest of the week, please check out /r/WhatAreYouPlaying.

/r/Games has a Discord server! Feel free to join us and chit-chat about games here: https://discord.gg/zRPaXTn

**Scheduled Discussion Posts**

WEEKLY: [What Have You Been Playing?](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/search?
q=author%3AAutoModerator+AND+title%3A%28What+have+you+been+playing%29&restrict_sr=on&sort=new&t=all)

MONDAY: [Thematic Monday](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/search?
q=author%3AAutoModerator+AND+title%3A%28Thematic%29&restrict_sr=on&sort=new&t=all)

WEDNESDAY: [Suggest Me A Game](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/search?
q=author%3AAutoModerator+AND+title%3A%28Suggest%29&restrict_sr=on&sort=new&t=all)

FRIDAY: [Free Talk Friday](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/search?q=author%3AAutoModerator+AND+title%3A%28Friday%29&restrict_sr=on&sort=new&t=all)
Still playing Psychonauts 2. Near the end and enjoying it so much!

I think next I'll download either Prey or Dishonored. I've never played an Arkane game before so I want to see what the hype is about.
**Noita**. This has been a staple in my rotation since picking it up 6 months ago. I cannot get enough of this game and the depth of secrets and wandcrafting. Still
haven't beat it, and simply beating this punishing roguelike is going to be one of my crowning gaming achievements. Highly recommended.

**Dishonored 2**. Finally got around to playing this game and loved it. First play through was with Emily and I went low chaos. Now running through it again as
Corvo and killing everyone and everything. Such a great game, will be playing the DLC for Dishonored 1 and DOTO next.

**Max Payne 2**. I loved this game when it came out and I'm giving it a quick replay now. Such a short, simple, sweet game. The physics and gunplay still hold up
well. If you haven't played this classic, do yourself a favor and do so.
**Hob**

I've kept this game in my radar for a long time but don't actually hear it come up as often. Recently it was 50% off and decided to finally give it a go. Played through
the first two hours to complete the first mission in the first dungeon like world and damn, it's a beautiful and charming game! I'm having a lot of fun with it, it's exactly
the kind of game I was in the mood for.
**Psychonauts 2:** Finished the game and it was magnificent. Double Fine absolutely hit this one out of the park. Which is great to see because I often find Double
Fine games are high on concept, but not always so great on the execution. For example, how Broken Age went completely off-the-rails. But Double Fine kept
Psychonauts 2 tightly focused and I'm not sure I have any major criticisms. It was a _little_ frustrating in a couple of sections, but the "no damage from falls" option
is a god send. It lets you explore and try things without worrying that it will kill you. The final boss battle was a bit of a slog, but I had a couple of dream fluffs that
kept me in the fight.

I really loved the imagination put into this game with each trip through a different mind. I found Bob Zanotto's level particularly affecting.

**Superliminal:** Played and finished this one this week. It's not very long, which isn't a criticism as such. It's a bit of a weird game in that it seems to take _a lot_ of
influences from much better games and try to mash them up in a way that, for me, feels a bit disjointed. It feels like it doesn't really execute well on any of it's
aspects but maybe, despite that, it still ends up being more than the sum of its parts.

It's mostly a 3D puzzler game. Influences from Portal 1/2, especially with the "behind the scenes" sections are obvious. It tries to be philosophical like Talos
Principle, but ultimately I found its "philosophy" to be about as deep as a Successories poster (seriously, it could be [this poster]
(https://www.successories.com/motivational-posters/93940-perspective-wooded-path-motivational-poster) - THE GAME!). I also got Antichamber vibes with the way
it does tricks with perception (and to be fair, I never finished Antichamber, so maybe it actually does better here?) and Beginner's Guide in the later sections where
it mostly forgets about puzzles and becomes mostly walking. Maybe a touch of The Witness too?

The puzzle mechanics are a little frustrating making a lot of puzzles more "fiddly" than they need to be, which is something that always annoys me in 3D puzzlers.
It's frustrating to know _what_ you need to do, but to be unable to line things up exactly right to do it. It doesn't help that Superliminal doesn't do a good job of really
explaining its mechanics and give you a chance to master them. This is in contrast to something like Portal that does an absolutely amazing job of introducing
portals, letting you get the hang of them, and then introducing the next twist, like using portals with boxes to drop a box on a button. Superliminal doesn't really do
that and I never felt like I entirely had the hang of how to get objects to exactly the size and orientation I needed. There was an especially frustrating section where I
need to stack two doors on top of each other to reach a key hole (which I think was the right way to approach that puzzle - which is another point). I had a really
hard time getting the sizes and orientations correct and then getting the second one to land exactly on top of the first. I eventually managed to get it _close enough_
that I could push through. Which brings me to another point about the mechanics. Because resizing and reorientating objects is so open-ended, you are sometimes
not entirely sure if you've done a puzzle the "right way" or if you just broke the game by putting this thing there so you can climb up to this other place that you aren't
sure you were supposed to get to anyway. This may sound a bit like it contradicts the first statement of this paragraph, but Superliminal does both. Sometimes you
know what to do, but can't get things positioned right. Sometime you do something that lets you progress but you aren't sure that was the intended solution.

Ultimately Superliminal isn't a bad game and I don't regret spending a little under three hours with it. It's probably a good thing that it stayed short. I even thought I
might replay it with developer commentary on just because I'd like to know what they were intending (I probably won't though). It's just that there are many other
games that do the things it does better. As far as 3D puzzle type games go, I'd make this third tier rather than second tier. Maybe on par with the original Q.U.B.E
(but not the sequel, which was a lot better).

**Darkest Dungeon:** I decided to bite the bullet and install a couple of minor mods to make this a little less grindy. I installed an inventory stacking mod that
expands the number of items you can stack in a single inventory space. I did this because having to leave treasure behind just feels like needlessly padding the
game. In addition I installed a roster expansion mod that doubles the roster size just because I like to have lots of heroes to rotate through.

I've still mostly been sticking to the easiest dungeons while I build out the blacksmith and the guild, but I did take on my first medium difficulty dungeon and it went
okay. So I might be ready now to move up a bit.

**Battletech:** Looking for a bit of a break from Darkest Dungeon, I pulled this out of my extensive backlog and finally gave it a go. And discovered that...it's
surprisingly not dissimilar to Darkest Dungeon! Not in the setting (obviously) or the battle mechanics (obviously again), but in the strategic base building level. In
Darkest Dungeon you do runs to acquire loot to upgrade your hamlet and your heroes and then...you do it again. In Battletech you take contracts to acquire loot to
upgrade your heroes and their mechs (less so the ship itself, but apparently that comes with later story missions) and then...you do it again. So I've jumped out of
the Eldridge horror frying pan into the giant stompy robot fire! Which is all to say, yeah, this might be a bit grindy too. I expect it to be nowhere near as grindy as
DD, but on the other hand, the battles are a bit more involved and can take longer to resolve.

So far, I've liked the game, but it does do a really horrible job of introducing itself and guiding you through the early stages. There is a tutorial mission at the start
that leads you through moving the camera (well, duh), clicking to select your mech and then clicking again to move it, and firing your weapons...and that's it. There
is _so much_ that it leaves out. It doesn't explain the meaning of the bars hovering above your mech. It doesn't explain how you can chose which weapons to fire
and that you might want to do that to manage heat. It talks a little about heat, but it's only solution is to jump into a pond which I have yet to find an actually useful tip
in any mission so far. It doesn't explain stability, it doesn't tell you anything about your weapons and why you might want to select one or the other. It's just
massively underbaked.

After the _very_ brief tutorial, you are thrown into the intro mission. Because of the lack of instruction I ended up repeatedly overheating my mechs, losing an arm
on one of them and then having Mastiff die in the final battle of that mission forcing me to start over entirely. That seemed needlessly frustrating for an opening
mission and it should have been an extend tutorial and be more tightly scripted IMHO.

Once you are past that (and another intro mission that took me several attempts to get "right" because I didn't really know stuff despite in game being an
experienced Mechwarrior), you get into the game proper when it dumps you in you spaceship and tells you...pretty much nothing. It left me thinking "erm...okay
so...what do I do now?!?". Again, in some ways, this is similar to DD in that you could easily waste a bunch of your money because you have no idea if you should
be hiring new people or buying new equipment, or refitting your mechs (which is another UI nightmare) or if you should just try using what you have for now. It
doesn't help that unlike with DD, where it's pretty obvious what a "crusader" or a "vestal" should do, it's not clear what a "Blackjack" or a "Shadowhawk" is supposed
to be used for, intuitively, unless you are well versed in the Battletech universe.

But now that I feel like I'm _starting_ to get the hang of it, I am liking the game and I expect to play more of this.
**Hollow Knight**

Super solid Metroidvania game. Love the art and sound, not so fond of the whole Dark Souls thing where the story is told through annoyingly vague dialogue and
text on examinable items - but on the other hand this isn't a game that I'd want to be interrupted with cutscenes or longer dialogues, so I don't mind briefly skimming
the lore stuff and ignoring anything that doesn't make sense so I can beat up some more bugs.

Speaking of Dark Souls, there's also the mechanics of the resting spots and having to pick up your soul and Geo when you die... I really wish games would stop
doing this. In a game with so many vastly different directions I can explore, it is really frustrating to (a) be discouraged from taking risks to reach tricky collectibles
because I don't want to die, and (b) have to retrace my steps if I do die, before I can explore in a different direction.

So yeah, good game with a few gripes. I'd estimate I'm not even half way through the game yet so we'll see how the rest of it pans out.
I beat **Pokemon Black Version 2** for the first time today.

An affirmation of Gen V being the best generation for Pokemon games. It's kinda funny how this game essentially balances out Black and White; while those games
shined in story (for a Pokemon game), this one feels like it doesn't really have a story at all. All the story beats feel kinda shoehorned in and most of the plot
happens at the end, and is also over before you know it.

Not that it's too much of a problem though, because gameplay-wise this might well be the peak of Pokémon. It's got a phenomenal spread of Pokemon; I enjoyed
Black and White's pure Gen V dex, but it's always more fun when you just have access to all of the Pokemon and this game just delivers in that aspect. Every route,
every patch of grass probably has a 'mon that makes you go "Ooh, I want to try that on my team!". One of the earliest areas in the game gives you access to
Psyduck, Mareep, and Riolu among others. That's three cool Pokemon (lines) from three different gens.

One of the problems I had with OG Gen V was that the new gameplay mechanics it introduced were underutilized or even completely unknowable. While it doesn't
go crazy with it, Black 2 features more Triple and Rotation battles, which just creates a nice surprise and challenge (as opposed to double battles, which were
always a bit obvious). Hidden Abilities are also easier to get in contact with, as the Hidden Grottoes can offer up Pokemon that always have their Hidden Ability.

But especially the battles feel like a real step-up. Whereas other gens feel like they're afraid to give you trainers past mid-30's, the levels in this game ramp up well.
It never really feels like you're under- or overleveled, which is a great change of pace from most Pokemon games where one or the other inevitably happens. It
gives a nice challenge, even for normal battles, which is rare for a Pokemon game.

Technically, I actually love the look of Gen V. There's also some absolutely lush tracks in this game; Gen IV is still the best Pokemon OST, but Lacunosa Town is a
top-theme in any Pokemon game.

Final team: Samurott (Roronoa) Lvl. 59, Genesect Lvl. 60, Keldeo Lvl. 60, Kabutops (Zeiss) Lvl. 59, Escavalier (Lancelot) Lvl. 56, Gliscor (The Claaaw) Lvl. 62 (HM
users: Patrat, Sandshrew, Mandibuzz, Dialga)
I got **Castlevsnia Advance Collection** after the Direct. Most of us know the score. Circle actually looks a little better than I remember, but I may have never
actually played it on the SP, so I may never have seen it in any kind of well-lit detail. It’s still very airy and bloated though. Not a bad game by any means, but it
lacks the deliberate design that Igavanias are known for. Harmony actually plays better than I remember. I remember liking it when it was new, but I think playing
Aria ruined me for it because I also remember never really feeling compelled to play Harmony again once Aria was out. I’ll be saving Aria for last because once I
play it, I won’t want to play the others- I probably played it last about two years ago anyway, so I can hold it in a bit longer. Drac X was a nice addition- I’ll play it
back to back with Super IV in a few days.

I also picked up **Actraiser: Renaissance**. It’s a little rough around the edges, at least on Switch, at least in portable. It’s a bit fugly, but it’s not terrible. I probably
wouldn’t recommend it unless you already feel that the original is a cult classic. There are extras, like a nice mini tower defense mode that pops up every now and
then. I’m only in Bloodpool, and while there is a lot of changes and additions that should certainly be explained to the player, the tutorials are borderline infuriating in
the Fillmore town building portion. Near constant interruptions that aren’t paced well. I’m still enjoying it- but like I said, I think it has more to do with seeing an
adored part of my teenage years in a new light than it is pure delight with the experience here. I honestly would expect more refinement from Square Enix, even for
an outsourced quick job.

I tried the new Blustery Basin course in **Mario Golf: Super Rush**, and it’s actually pretty challenging! I played regular CPUs and tied for last, where I usually
sweep the CPUs by several strokes. The game feels quite a bit more substantial at this point. Not that I prefer early access bullshit like this from Nintendo, but at
least they’re making good on it.
Haven't posted here in awhile, not gonna list out everything I've played, but among the most recent (in order):

**Dark Souls Remastered**

Replay with NG+ (and half of NG++) to be exact. I still love this game, though I will never play NG+ again because I feel like it's less fun. But on the plus side! I got
the platinum trophy. Now I'm a true gamer, right???

**Tales of Arise**

I had a great time with this one. My experience with Tales was limited to Vesperia which I enjoyed but felt like it overstayed it's welcome, and Symphonia which I
played an hour of and hated. My experience with Arise is pretty much the same as with Vesperia thankfully. If I had to say what my biggest problem with the game
is, it's the damage sponge enemies. Even on the easiest difficulty they simply have too much HP for the amount of damage you do. Particularly with the bosses, but
with the trash mobs it started getting a little grating near the end as well. It doesn't help that they mix in old bosses with the trash mobs during the end section, and
there's entirely too much repetitive dialogue around there when you just wanna finish the game. Overall, I had a good time and especially enjoyed the cast, but I
have to say the endgame dampened my opinion of it.

**Silent Hill 2 Enhanced Edition**

I originally downloaded this like 2 years ago and stopped midway through because horror games are generally a lot of start/stop for me (as in I pause every few
minutes because my nerves can't handle it), but this time things went more smoothly. This game still has incredible atmosphere, and I highly enjoyed my time with it.
Overall I think REmake is still my favorite horror game because it's better in terms of it being a game, but this one takes the cake for the actual horror elements and
overall creativity. I have a lot of respect for it. Also weirdly coincidental that I decided to play this around the 20th anniversary? Had no idea, but thought it was
funny since I played Astral Chain and Dark Souls around their anniversaries without realizing it as well.

**Bioshock**

This one was aight. Gameplay and level design-wise it's no Doom or Half-Life, but I do have to admit the aesthetic was amazing. I dug the story and especially the
twist (I love when games turn genre tropes on their heads like that). Post-twist the game felt kinda anti-climactic though. Either way, I look forward to playing the
rest in the near future.

**Silent Hill 1**

Since I had time before Lost Judgment, I broke out the old PS3 (after a big headache with signing onto PSN since they apparently changed how that works on PS3)
and finished this one off fast. Somehow this managed to give me more anxiety than 2, which in part I think has to do with how industrial the sound design is. I have
to say it actually holds up really well, at least in terms of atmosphere. The story is a little goofy, but I chalk that up to being on PS1 and team Silent not really hitting
their stride yet. Unfortunately I did get the worst possible ending, but I figure I'll just watch the best ending for whenever I get around to 3 later on.

**Lost Judgment**

Here we are, up to date. So I'm on chapter 11 now. I feel like initially it was one of the most gripping Yakuza stories, but around chapter 9 basically everything was
laid bare and now we're kinda just going in circles. There's one more question that has yet to be answered, and frankly I don't think it's as interesting as all the other
plot points have been, so the story has meandered a bit? I also feel like the substories this time around have been a little lame, though granted I haven't dived deep
into the school stories yet. Combat-wise it's easily the best since Kiwami 1, maybe even the best overall, although I don't really play Yakuza games for the combat.
Will update maybe next week how I'm feeling when I finish, but so far I feel as if this is about mid-tier for Yakuza. It's retroactively improving my opinion of Yakuza 7
though weirdly enough.
[Last time](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/pr4gmp/weekly_rgames_discussion_what_have_you_been/hdirvlp/)

**Assassin’s Creed Chronicles: India** (PC) - Played China a few months ago - thoughts on that [here]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/no76p3/weekly_rgames_discussion_what_have_you_been/gzzpv77/) - and beat this one this week. It's a bit of a
downgrade from China.

The gameplay is similar to China - it's a 2.5D action platformer with major stealth elements. The main focus is on stealth and the best ranks are awarded to those
who can sneak through without alerting or killing anyone. The combat was atrocious in China, where you needed to use two button prompts to block. It's marginally
better in India with a slightly more intuitive system, but you can easily be taken down in a few hits so if you're spotted, 90% of the time you're dead (and I died a lot
on this game). The stealth gameplay and the traversal is fun, and the scenery has a great 'painted' feel to it. There's even extended portions inside Precursor
temples (probably a quarter of the game is spent in them) which I really enjoyed.

There's a lot of timed missions in this game which I didn't like so much. I enjoyed the 'escape' missions like in China but being graded on how well you can rush
through levels with normal enemy encounters felt a bit antithetical to the slower, plan-based gameplay. Some mechanics felt a bit less well tutorialised too - whilst
China had a comprehensive introduction, I felt like India missed out some key parts (like the ability to hang on roofs which I don't recall being mentioned in the
normal gameplay). The story is a bit slight with an ending that didn't feel like an ending, though the voice acting is decent and I liked how bits of this game
referenced China and the wider story. The database entries continue to be poorly written as well.

On the whole, it's an OK game but I do prefer China. The Chronicles games are probably the most stealth-focused entries in the entire series as combat has never
been more disincentivised than in these games. Russia is next up before I start Origins (I can't play Identity on my phone - maybe if I upgrade it I'll play it one day).
**Casstlevania Harmony of Dissonance**

Picked up the Advance Collection and started Harmony up as it's the only one in there I've never played.

Pretty interesting. Not really sold on the spellbook+subweapon mechanic. Some seem super strong, some seem.... pretty bad. Any of the ones that give you a
shield that damages enemies or adds an option that autoattacks enemies are stupid good.

The map gimmick of there being two castles you travel between is interesting. They honestly aren't that different visually and it kinda feels like an attempt to redo
the Symphony of the Night thing but not as neat.

There's still some things I haven't quite figured out. I learned that tapping down at a teleport cycles you through teleports instead of sending you to the one it's
usually linked to - which I wish the game had mentioned much earlier. I'm still not entirely sure how animation cancelling works either. Sometimes backdashing
instantly cancels a melee attack, other times I can't cancel it. It seems completely random.

The game felt fairly difficult at first but it's been a hot minute since a boss killed me or got me close to dying. The regular enemies feel more threatening than most
of the bosses.

I also had trouble figuring out what to do at points. After talking to Death and learning there were two castles, I spent about 90 minutes wandering the castle trying
to progress (got some good upgrades in the meantime) until I figured out I was supposed to attack a pillar to lower it and grab an item that let me destroy walls.

Speaking of, it's also annoying I have to pause and equip the whip upgrade to break walls and then unequip it after the wall is broken. If it had just been permanent
and I can turn it off if I don't want it on currently, I'd be fine. Just sucks to have to pause anytime I find a breakable wall, just hurts the flow.

Still, fun game.
The usual: **Monster Train**.

I gave up on **Iconoclasts** shortly after my post last week. The game was barely a Metroidvania and just got in its own way too much. Maybe one day I'll finish it,
but probably not. For reference, I believe I was somewhere between a third and half done - I made it to the tower.

I've moved on to **Bloodstained** and obviously I'm enjoying it a lot more. Right before this post I accidentally beat the game and got the bad ending. I'm really
enjoying this, although there are a few small quibbles I have with it. The backgrounds are a little too busy sometimes and can cause some confusion, and a lot of
the shards are rather pointless. I would have liked to see the shards be a little more impactful and interesting, changing up the gameplay a little more. Also, not a fan
of certain shards being equippables. Yeah, there's the quick swap, but I feel stuff that is used for traversal should not require equipping. Those are minor things
though.
**Life is Strange: True Colors**

Finished Chapters 2 and Chapter 3 with a friend and I’m really liking the game. They’re trying out some different ways to engage with the player and you really see
that coming out of Chapter 3 where they throw RPG mechanics into the game briefly. Its neat and all in good fun, but it does play itself and go on kind’ve long for
those who just want to see the plot advance. Overall, its still very fun to go through and I appreciate it being released all at once for the first time.

Its always fun to compare your choices with the percentage of the rest of the game. It seems like most of the choices in the game are more achievable than past
LiS games, but I could see that changing more when your choices accumulate through Chapters 4 and 5. Maybe the most interesting choice I made was during the
ending of Chapter 2, which can basically be summed down to choosing to forgive or shred them into pieces for the horrible choices they were somewhat
manipulated to make. Despite the theme around this game being empathy and there being some acknowledgment of deep guilt or regret, it felt too cliche to forgive
for going with being involved with some pretty awful actions. To my surprise, only 4% chose justice over forgiveness. I get the idea of wanting to resolve conflict
when given the choice, but only 4%? LiS players are too soft.

**Layton’s Mystery Journey+**

Started the Story Mode after putting 18 hours into squashing all the Bonus puzzles. I finished 2 cases at this point and it should be noted that this feels like quite a
different Layton game to alot of extents. The tone for example is much more comedic than before. The game is laid out in episodes and mini-cases, making that
section in Azran Legacy feel like a test run to what they would end up focusing on. The puzzles are also much easier. I expect it to ramp up a bit over time, but most
of these puzzles are getting squashed in less than 2 minutes. It doesn’t feel like the same challenge the other Layton games had, at least in the beginning.

There are advantages to this game over the other Layton games though, one being a fresh cast and plenty of new characters. I like Katrielle in that she has the
logic skills of her father, but also shows her inexperience and candidness more in the story. I like that I’m playing as an up-and-comer in detective work and I think
her foil relationship with Emiliana works really well. Although, I hope Ernest eventually has more than him than just being a Kat’s hype-man/simp. But regardless, it’s
been almost 9 years since I finished a Layton game, so playing through this semi-reboot is still a joy, even if it’s unlikely to reach the heights found in some of the
other Layton games.
**Metro Exodus**

Crazy ass game. Every section of the game is so unique and different feeling that it’s insane honestly. So immersive in every aspect of it. The atmosphere is second
only to Alien: Isolation. Beautiful as fuck on PS5 in so many different ways too. Gives you such a cool moment that normally a game would then try to recreate in
different ways a couple times since they strike such gold but no 4A just goes yup that was fucking awesome, hopefully you enjoyed it cuz you ain’t ever seeing it
again. Just love the design of the campaign so much. I still think the feel of shooting, the impact of the shots in relation to enemies reactions/animations, the human
AI & the inconsistent hit boxes all are kinda dated feeling but the rest of the game is so masterful that it’s hard to really hold anything against it. It’s taking me a while
to get through but it’s cuz I’m so immersed in this hostile world that I slow down so much. Will try to wrap up in the next couple days as Echoes of the Eye is my
most anticipated thing maybe ever.

**Splitgate**

Played a little ranked 2v2 with my buddy which is strategic & challenging but still a good time. Made him finish the session with like 6 Rumble modes matches, all
different modes, which is so much god damn fun. Splitball may be my favorite but not sure haha I love Instagib, Big Head Sniper, Contamination, Team Fiesta, Gun
Game all so much so idk.

**Overwatch**

Played like 2-3 matches of Mystery Heroes earlier in the week & then the 5v5 pro show match got me craving some comp so I hopped on for the first time this
season and lost a support game & won a tank game. Still love it but am so excited for Overwatch 2 to drop that I’m still not gonna dive back in deep til it’s launch.
Been really working on getting all 120 stars in **Super Mario 64** without looking anything up.

I don't think most people realize how tough of a task this is towards the end. I'm around the high 90s right now, and without using a guide, it's definitely tough. Just
finished getting the secrets in Wet Dry World and getting 100 coins in a couple of levels.
**Halo: Infinite** (test flight)

I spent most of my free time this weekend playing this beta, which is the first time I've got my hands on Infinite. I *loved* it. I'm one of those "this series went
downhill after Halo 3!" people, but Infinite feels like a "course correction" in so many ways - It "modernizes" Halo in some crucial ways, like keeping the now-
standard sprint and clamber, but it also keeps the focus primarily on the sandbox like the classic games.

I certainly have my quibbles with it - The HUD changes are a downgrade imo, I don't like the "enemy outlines" compared to standard red vs blue, the default aiming
settings are *garbage* and even when tweaked don't feel as good as the other games, the motion sensor needs some more adjustment, etc. But the CORE here is
just so damn fun, its exactly how I wish Halo went when it decided that it "had to change."

Unfortunately, I wasn't able to log in on the days when they had Big Team Battle, which sucks, cause BTB is my bread-and-butter for Halo. But I'm looking forward
to giving that a spin next weekend :D Man, it feels GOOD to finally be excited about Halo again!
**Portal**

I haven't played Portal in a while. Apparently, though, somewhere along the line, it got old. Like, if it were released today, people easily be able to say, "this game
feels like it was made fifteen years ago." It's recognizable. And not merely in the visuals and the resolution of the game. The tutorial's unrefined and lengthy, the
endgame has too many helper signs to direct lost players, and the puzzles lack that "aha" feel that Portal 2 and other contemporaries have. All of this was fine back
in 2007. More than fine. But I recall a day back then when I thought that this was a crowning achievement, a tight, terse game that knew how to slowly dip you into
its deranged world. That's all true, but even so there's something static and frozen-in-time now apparent from the game.

That said, I think games have never matched the consistent humor or the unnerving feeling of Portal. The leap of faith puzzle in the tutorial section remains a high-
water mark for getting players to recognize what the world around them does by throwing caution to the wind and trying out something they don't understand.
There's also something non-theatrical about Portal that cuts deeper than its sequel or other games that have been released. It feels raw, and I think that's part of the
reason why the game has so many iconic moments and was such a cultural touchstone.
So hold on to your hats folks, because we're going down this path:

I finished **Silent Hill: Downpour**.

As I mentioned last time, my biggest gaming sin is apparently liking Silent Hill: Homecoming. I'm gonna drop the bomb and tell you I actually liked Silent Hill:
Downpour and the bigger bomb will be that this is the first Silent Hill that feels Silent Hill since the first one (3 notwhitstanding, I need to play it).

Silent Hill is a game that unfortunately hasn't aged well, and the plot, setting and atmosphere, plus the set pieces are downright odd nowadays to look at. Alien
looking enemies? Parasites? A giant moth, apparently just to piss me off, as a boss? These things do not appear on 2, 4 or Homecoming, where the enemies are
pretty much things symbolic regarding the characters. It's really weird, it's just a pastiche of western horror seen by the eyes of japanese devs and designers, and
it's pretty brilliant by it's been 23 years. It's time to properly rate it. Downpour has all of this and it's open world-ish game design, limited by chasms or barriers,
nooks and cranies with a random medkit or a weapon hidden around. Easter eggs are everywhere, and it truly feels like it has been made by the books from the first
game school of design.

This is cool. It's also cool how fighting enemies it's downplayed, making this more survival horror than action horror, the music is so good, and the graphics are
serviceable if you ignore how ugly everyone looks and how pedestrian the enemies are. Puzzles are interesting, but I did not care at all of that stupid quick time
events but that's probably a thing of its time.

The real issue with this game is twofold: the writing, which is absurdly pointless, to a point characters are largely irrelevant unless it's to prove the point that Silent
Hill affects everyone differently (though its treated as a limbo of sorts. It's weird, considering the endings **Spoiler:** >!as the town *allows* you to leave, if you are
"worthy". This isn't really Silent Hill stuff.!<). This is a big issue, since Silent Hill, even the first one, has always been characterized by strong world building, coherent
scripts and intriguing scenario design. Downpour doesn't have any of these. Silent Hill was about a cult and a very weird town, not some sort of sin laudromat where
you go to pay for your bad deeds. Silent hill has strong characters, often ambiguous but believable. Downpour has a guy whose entire drama lasts 3 minutes, a cop
with weird eyebrows whose entire schtick is being mad at you, and other characters whose only vague purpose is to make you think you're in hell. It's irritating, to
say the least, as the game pure design is actually what we could expect from Silent Hill, but it feels like a mockbuster made by a competent crew but written by
someone who has absolutely no clue what is writing a script, a world, a setting.

The second issue are the enemies. There are three or four enemies in the game, and they are just these weirdly American Mcgee's Alice-like caricatures or people,
at least the male characters look just like it. The rest are the dolls, which are actually cool (it's a manequinn, but the enemies are hard to see shadows, which can
be beaten or you can beat the manequinn. They are really creepy) and these female enemies with long skirts and heels (?) with weird faces. They are very
dissapointing and while SH1's enemies weren't the end of all enemy design, the series has been going on for more than a decade at this point. At least
Homecoming had this.

Special mention goes, though, to the Boogieman, a gigantic guy cosplaying the killer from My Bloody Valentine, but using a big mallet. That's really cool to be fair,
and the ending is a bit of a shock.

Bottom line? A competent survival horror, hampered largely by the poor enemy and character design and a lack of apparent understanding of the themes of the
franchise despite understanding the original gameplay. It's better than Homecoming, at least.

Other than this, I've been hammering away at **Halo: Spartan Strike**, which has been fun.
**Metroid: Zero Mission**

I've been getting more hyped for Metroid Dread as the release date moves closer, and as someone who's fell in love with the genre these last few years, I had to do
my homework on the granddaddy of the genre.

Thought I'd start right at the beginning, with a remake of Metroid on NES. What an amazing game. Perfect atmosphere, flawless game design and challenging
bosses. The hunt for secret items is so satisfying, you really feel like you discovered something the devs didn't want to be found. And the new level at the end was
a great Steve to the Metroid formula.

I definitely want to play Fusion and Super Metroid, but I'm contemplating a romhack for SM as I've heard it doesn't control as well as the flawless GBA games. Any
recommendations for a first timer?
**Xenoblade Chronicles X (cont.)**

Week 4 and 150 hours in now and I'm about 80% finished with exploration and missions, but the last 20% is the real end game challenge.

I've finally unlocked Skell flight so nothing is out of reach. It really adds another layer onto the world and makes it so much easier to access weird quest points.
Instead of having to navigate maze like terrain, I can just fly straight there.

I've finished Chapter 11 of the main story. That means there's only one chapter left. Still we haven't found the >!lifehold which at this point I'm sure it will never be
found!<. There was also a very interesting scene at the end of Yelv's missions that aligned with my suspicions. I have a feeling >!the lifehold is not what we're told it
is and I'm pretty sure there are no more humans!<. In any case I know I won't be disappointed by the final chapter. Xeno games always hold their cards til the last
minute and come up with something completely unexpected.

Finishing the main story will also unlock L60 Skells, superweapons and other stuff that I've been looking forward to. Can't wait to get some revenge on the high
level tyrants running around.
My usual play time along the week is consisted of two things: **Slay the Spire** and everything else. Playing on a Series S.

So, on my quest to Ascended 20 this week, I finally beat the game with the Watcher! I’m starting to understand how she works and found a couple of nice synergies
already. Wallop and Wrath is soooo good!

Advanced my Defect to A8 and got stuck. Bricked a couple of really nice runs because of dumb decisions and greediness. One run, I had a definite win but blew it
on pathing one fork before the last boss. Such is life at the Spire…

Didn’t advance much with the other two classes. I don’t know much about Ironclad or the Silent other than the safe strats, which got me to A17 on PC, so I find
those two classes kinda boring.

This week, I’ve also picked up a game I could never run on PC: **Batman: Arkham Knight**. The first thing I’ve realized is how “dated” the game looks. Not graphics
wise but artistically speaking: the whole dark, low brightness and contrast, grimey vibe definitely look old in comparison to the bright, colourful games that are
popular nowadays. Other than that, man, I really missed a cool Batman game.

The story so far is pretty good and it’s great that Batman games dive deep into the DC universe. I love reading about the characters, the city stories, and
discovering new things about the Batman series. I’m not a comic guy but ever since I’ve read that Snyder Batman run (and Injustice), I’ve been a fan.

Furthermore, I’ve found that the gameplay loop is the same old, combat is very familiar and safe. Didn’t like the car at first but I’m getting warm to it.

Overall, I’m enjoying Arkham Knight a bunch. Had I bought it, I would be pissed at the two crashes and glitches I’ve had, but since it’s a Game Pass game and I’ve
paid nothing for it, I don’t really mind.

Lastly, I’ve played **Minecraft** for half an hour for the weekly Xbox quest. Surprisingly, this is my first time playing the game. I found it relaxing, like the perfect
game to chill after work. Not my cup of tea but I’m intrigued!
Not too much this week, since I was mainly watching some esports streams.

I wanted to play **Castlevania Advance Collection** but I couldn't get it to run on my system, because it immediately crashed, so I had to refund it. Once the Steam
Deck is out I'll give it another shot though.

I also played **Flynn: Son of Crimson** for a handful of levels, because I got it through Game Pass, but I'm not too impressed right now. Not sure if I continue yet, I
have to give it a bit more time.

**Monster Hunter World: Iceborne**

I mainly farmed some materials to upgrade my gear a bit this week, either in the Guiding Lands or through Event Quests.

My fights with some of the stronger enemies were all over the place. I killed a Tempered Ruiner Nergigante a few times and half the time I didn't have too many
problems, and the other half I was just tossed around constantly. Same with Lunastra, my first kill was super easy, the next two or three times I was feeding so
much I could have ended world hunger.

**Tales of Arise**

Almost no progress in this one as well this week.

I finished the fourth realm and like I thought it was pretty short. Despite that, the devs apparently remembered some of the characters and the story and decided to
dump everything on you.

My dislike for the two main characters increases, but the side characters grow on me, especially in their skits.
I'm kinda at a crossroads with **XCOM Chimera Squad** -- about 10 hrs logged, having an ok time but not super into continuing. A lot of it has to do with the
mechanics in comparison to the other two turn-based tactics games that I really got into, **Mario Rabbids** and **Gears Tactics**.

Mostly it just feels like a step back in regards to player freedom. The Breach mechanic is kinda cool, but besides turn order you have zero control over tile
positioning before the first turn, so if for instance you have everyone at the same breach point you could have two squad members bunched up behind the same
cover, and the other two on the other side, also bunched together. And then throw in the small size of the maps and it feels even more stifling.

Then there's the seemingly arbitrary action point rules (which moves will end a character's turn). In the two aforementioned tactics games you have freedom to
shoot then move or vice versa. In Chimera Squad I can move then shoot or shoot and end turn. How can that even be justified by the devs?

I am iffy on the alternating turn order, which I understand is featured in other similar games. I don't hate it, it's another layer of strategy, but I certainly do not prefer it
to full team turns.

There are other little things that prevent me from wholly enjoying the combat that have to do with presentation, but mostly it's the slight clunkiness of all the systems
that has me eyeing a new game.

Question to **XCOM** vets -- are my issues unique to **Chimera Squad**, or do the mainline **XCOMs** play this way as well?
I've been playing a fair amount of **Red Dead Online** this week with friends. It's a pretty solid game, it's very easy to set a marker for one thing and end up taking
way more time than needed to actually go do what you planned on because 5 different things caught your eye. I've got the Bounty Hunter, Collector, Trader, and
Naturalist roles right now. The only one I don't love is Naturalist, it feels pretty disorganized and at lower levels you basically just have to sell animal samples to
progress. Plus, anything that makes me deal with that awful camera is not something I enjoy. I don't see myself playing this long term, but it's been fun to dip my
toes in.

After the Nintendo Direct, I've been super excited for Splatoon 3 so this weekend I jumped back into **Splatoon 2**. I'm definitely rusty, but I'm slowly shaking it off.
I'm mostly just trying to get to higher levels and accumulate enough ability chunks to make some gear that has good buffs and a good look. But progress can be
pretty slow, especially when scrubbing the abilities costs 20k.
The artful escape.

Really didn’t like it tbh, I finished it just because it was pretty short but after the first hour I didn’t really enjoy my time.

The one thing this game has going for it is the locations/landscapes you run across. Some really cool designs and environment.

That’s about it. Did not get invested into the story of “kid wants to be his own person and struggles being in the shadow of a famous family member and finding
himself” yawn.

The actual gameplay is push forward and walk through each different environment for like 45 minutes with some dialog sprinkled throughout, and then a guitar
battle that is the most basic button matching rhythm I’ve ever done, hardly call it fun.

On my rating scale I’d give it like a 3.5/10
Scarlet Nexus

I just finished Yuito's story. I really like the graphics, music, and combat. The way the story is mostly told through visual novel-like cutscenes is kind of a bummer.

The side-quest are really REALLY dumb. The combat like I said, I enjoy, but it also becomes a bit boring when you eventually become over powered as shit.


Control

Just started it and only about one hour in. So far enjoying it.
**Borderlands 3**

This game is such a mixed bag for me. Gameplay wise, it's the best in the franchise: movement is smooth, shooting feels good. and each character is fun to play
as, with a lot of build variety. Been playing as Fl4k to try them out, and I'm having a blast.

However, storywise is such a letdown. There are a lot of neat ideas and concepts, but the execution falls flat in almost all of them. The Calypso twins could have
been such interesting villains, and their dynamic hints at some cool twists that never come. The humor is the worst in the franchise. I know that Borderlands' humor
has always been hit or miss, but here is just jokes that only 12-year-old kids would find funny. Doesn't help that this game comes off the tail of Tales from the
Borderlands, which has the best writing in the franchise.

I don't like to be a Negative Nancy, and I know that at its heart, Borderlands is a looter-shooter. But, damn, this game could have been so much better.
So after being emotionally wrecked by **Disco Elysium**, I decided I wanted to play something a little more mechanics-focused over story. So I finally went back to
**Hitman 2**, which I never really finished. Been replaying some of the levels I already beat to get re-familiar with everything, it's still a really fun game. The "mission
stories" might be a little on-the-rails but they're still pretty satisfying, and there's definitely a lot of freedom to experiment with other methods as well. For whatever
reason though, my progress in Hitman 1 didn't transfer over when I first got Hitman 2, so it's a little frustrating that I can't access those tools without mastering those
levels again.
Been playing **Troubleshooter Abandoned Children** (which has been described as Korean XCom) again. Tried it a year ago and liked it but got distracted by
things so giving it another shot on a fresh savefile. I'm digging it a lot more. And the devs seem to be very committed to the title still.

The story is completely inscrutable to me though. Not sure if it's just translation issues, or it's so uninteresting I've skipped through too much of it. Regardless it's
not the main draw of the game. It's a bit cheesy (there's a cult called Spoonists), but it's not without some charm.

The game has been compared to XCom, Fire Emblem and Final Fantasy Tactics, but it's a lot crunchier than any of those. Initially it seemed overwrought with the
amount of systems in place. But with more time it does seem to be pretty cohesive.

It's niche though. I think I'm about 30ish hours in (not sure, I just collected the penultimate non-DLC party member) and only 15% of players completed that
achievement. Not sure if that's high or low. I can see why a lot of players would drop off. The translation is rough. The story is ridiculous. It's grindy. Still a fun
experience if you have a tolerance for that kind of nonsense.
**Ratchet and clank rift apart**
Finally pulled a plug and bought it. And Holy shit this brings me back to the ps2 times when i played Ratchet and clank games after school. Not to mention the dual
sense feature and 3d audio makes this so much enjoyable.
**Halo 3 ODST:**

While the rest of the Halo fans try out Infinite's MP this weekend, I'm continuing on my quest to play through all the previous Halo games for the first time (thoughts
on Halo 2/CE [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/nthjcg/comment/h0vbfml/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3), Halo 3 [here]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/o8tfrc/comment/h382235/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) and most recently, Halo Reach [here]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/p0bc7x/comment/h86m0qp/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)). In my last post about Halo Reach,
several people insisted that I don't skip on ODST, so I did as they said and played through this masterpiece. This was a surprisingly fresh entry where the devs took
such a different turn in term of relaying the story, all in a perfect film noir asthetic. The OST was so great, esp. the atmosphere on Mombasa streets was chilling. I
loved the voice acting and the humor throughout the game (Nathan Fillion didn't dissapoint!). No wonder so many people consider this their favorite game in the
Halo series. Also, happy 12 year anniversary Halo ODST; I'm glad I didn't skip you. And with that, I've now played through all the Bungie games; now on to 343's
Halo 4.
**Deathloop**

Great game but probably my least favorite from Arkane. I like how you start learning the maps but I think repetition sets in too early, especially once you make a
build you like. On the story side the voice acting is so good it almost is enough to make me overlook how barebones the plot really is, but not quite. I especially wish
that the endings had more substance. Overall, I'm glad I played it to completion but I probably won't ever touch it again.

**Kena: Bridge of Spirits**

Fantastic freshman effort from a studio. The game is absolutely gorgeous and the gameplay is solid if a bit simple. The highlight is the boss fights, and the Hunter in
particular is a really fun design for a fight. It reminds me of a game from the early 2000s in a good way. Mostly it leaves me excited to see what this studio puts out
next.
**Diablo 2: Resurrected**

Welp, I should have known better. I bought this against my better judgment and I regret it big time. Looters are my favorite genre, I absolutely love them (Diablo 3,
Borderlands, Destiny, etc). D2 is known as the grand daddy of them all, and I was cautiously excited to try it. Unfortunately it just feels so dated that I don’t think I
can enjoy it. I am constantly out of mana, chugging potions and then TPing to town to get more potions. The controls are clunky (seriously? No skill bar? And there
are so many obscure mechanics or things that are just weird (the merc dying every 2 seconds and having to be revived with gold, having to run back to your body
on death, etc).

I wish I liked the game but it’s just super frustrating and not all that fun. I beat act 1 but don’t really feel like pushing much further on. Also there are big issues with
lag and disconnects. I would not recommend this game to anybody who doesn’t have nostalgia for it.
**13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim** (PS4)

I'm not that much into VNs, the last one I played was Danganronpa years ago, so I probably would've completely missed it if it wasn't a Vanillaware game. Went
blindly into it and, 30 or so hours later, now I find it one of the best PS4 exclusives.

There's a lot to like in the game. My favorite part is that, even though it has a very complex (and occasionally convoluted) plot with twists and turns, by the time
you're done you'll have a full picture. And it's not about having a happy or satisfying ending, but one you'll understand. I hate finishing a story-heavy game and then
having to hit a wiki to figure out what the fuck just happened, even more so when it turns out to be mostly up to interpretation.

I also liked how, for a game full of tropes, some still caught me off guard. Like >!time travelling that I'm not a big fan of, but when I was close to halfway through the
game and it reveals there's none after all!<, I had to take a break because a dozen pieces fell into place at once.
I just started **Toukiden 2**. If you like *third person fantasy create-your-own-appearance action open world games with RPG elements* (my favourite genre!), I
recommend it (when it's on sale).

The combat is fun (at least with some weapons). The movement is fine and you can grapple into treetops, which is awesome. Toukiden 2 also has a day-night cycle
and it looks pretty good for a low budget game.

The biggest problem is how overpriced this game is on PC. It's a 2017 game and it does not look great, so idk why it's still 60 € plus DLC.

Another issue imo is that anything ranged is just frustrating to use. For example, to aim a bow, I can use the Right stick -- but to shoot, I need to press X or Y (on the
Xbox controller). It's horrible! Alternatively, I can aim with left stick, but then I can't move. ???? It seems like if I want to use ranged abilities, my best bet is relying on
lock-on, which is very unfun. C'mon, games have already figured out third person archery! It could have been awesome!

Luckily, you can use melee weapons without having to rely on lock-on. I haven't tried all the weapons yet but the spear is my favourite so far.
Kena bridge of spirits. Really surprised by the game and I really wanted to step into reviews world so I also write my own one these days.

I can't wait to finish editing and rendering it because I'm really pumped up for it.

Is not a perfect game, but totally worth it for the price.
**Ghost of Tsushima: Director’s Cut** (PS5) - Big Kurosawa fan and the setting and style of this game is right down my alley, so I’ve been anticipating this one since
release. There was a lot I loved and a lot I didn’t, but I did really enjoy my time with it all the way through. The combat is really fluid, and the different abilities and
stances are fun. Everything is really smooth on PS5 and the load times are amazing. I thought I'd get tired of the combat considering the lack of enemy variety, but I
ended up enjoying it more and more as I unlocked new abilities and styles. Even considering giving NG+ a go.

The Iki Island DLC was a great addition. Gave some much needed enemy variety. The Mongolian throat-singing was fantastic as well and worked perfectly as
combat music. Loved the monkey rock as a set piece.

I’m not usually a fan of this type of open-world design, but it really worked for me in this game with a few small exceptions (areas tied to missions being inaccessible
or, conversely, clearing an area only to have it completely repopulated for a mission later on). I think the use of “natural” elements like the birds and wind to guide
the player was a clever solution and helped avoid a lot of the immersion-breaking tools these games usually have. Also enjoyed the variety of activities like the fox
dens, shrines, onsen, etc. However, I really could have done without the haikus. I liked what they were going for but just didn’t think they pulled it off. They were
corny, for lack of a better word. Maybe it was the meditative music coming from the controller, but despite the beautiful scenery these mostly got an eyeroll from me
and I just didn’t think they fit the game well. The meditative thoughts in the hot springs I thought worked better and filled mostly the same role. Maybe they could
have expanded on that and then just cut the haikus completely? Probably an unpopular opinion.

The world/map is beautiful. Fun to explore and I thought it avoided having the kind of filler that usually plague these kinds of maps. The best of its kind that I’ve
played. I did think they went overboard in some respects though. No restraint at all, the sliders all the way at 100. Of course the crazy abundance of leaves is well-
known. Also, at times having flowers and colors from all 4 seasons visible at once was pretty jarring and made the world feel not like Japan but instead some kind
of dream-like fantasy world. Maybe not a bad thing depending on who you ask, but I thought it clashed with the style they were going for. I think it would have been
fine to ignore the seasons as long as they were separated by area, but having them all mixed together at times was a strange choice.

I played the game with Japanese audio and thought the voice acting was really, really well done. Thought they did an especially great job with Khan.
**Voice of Cards Demo**

I thought it was a cute way to do a digital tabletop RPG but wasn't really feeling it. Then I got to the muscular fisherman and realized it is a digital tabletop RPG
being GM'd by Yoko Taro. So I am back on board.
**Cyberpunk 2077** , I got it a few weeks back for $10 at bestbuy. Playing on PS4 slim. I’m loving it so far, about 15 hours. Once I got to the heist mission a couple
hours in, I was hooked. No crashes. Not sure on frame rate, but I’m pretty tolerant considering I thought Homefront the revolution was totally playable on PS4 and
this is better. I think this is one like Mass Effect Andromeda and the aforementioned Homefront the revolution where the technical issues are and likely will always
overshadow a quite good game.
**Quake** I did a full play-through of the new release (got it as a free upgrade). As a kid I only ever had the shareware version, but I had seen some QDQ stuff.
What a great game. Looks and feels brilliant on the new engine (or whatever they did to it). The expansions are also pretty impressive, from the new enemy variety
in Scourge of Armagon and Dissolution of Eternity (1997) to the complex level structures of Dimension of the Machine (2021). I had a great time.

**Prey: Mooncrash** DLC for Arkane’s 2017 game and apparent prototype for Deathloop. Spent 24 hours (non-consecutive) fully completing this Rogue-lite
Immersive Sim. Gameplay and Story were pretty good, but it got very easy once I found the DelayLoop fabrication plan on the 2nd or 3rd run.

**Mirror’s Edge** I had a go for a couple of hours but wasn’t really enjoying it. The controls feel clunky, inconsistent and unresponsive, and it’s never quite clear
where you’re supposed to go. The time pressure results in frustratedly repeating the same section until you finally work it out.
Nothing new. Just enjoying playing TES4: Oblivion. Recently downloaded Genshin Impact update to play new content.
**Psychonauts 2**

I finished the main story last week and just had a great time with it. For me the strongest elements of this game include the story, characters, level design, art style.
It's so clear that a ton of passion went into making this game. The weakest elements were the gameplay and the music - not to say they were bad by any means!
The game controls tightly and most of the platforming feels great while combat feels decent and has a decent amount of variety to it. The biggest downside to
gameplay is having to switch back and forth between powers. The music is good, but with a couple of exceptions there aren't many standout tracks. Overall, I'd
recommend this to anyone with even a mild interest to give it a try, especially since it's on Game Pass.


**Saints Row 2**

Still playing through this one with a friend, we're at 50% overall completion now. Some of the activities are so boring in co-op, particularly when both players are
stuck in the same vehicle because one person usually gets stuck driving and the other gets stuck shooting with no way to switch without switching the host of the
game. 6 instances in a row of half-heartedly throwing molotovs isn't exactly compelling. That being said, I'm still just so impressed by the world and what they
managed to put together in 2008. The districts you visit are often distinct from one another in terms of the vehicles and NPCs you'll find in those areas. They had
thrown so much against the wall with this game and while it can feel tedious at times, I can't help but constantly be impressed.

**Age of Empires: Definitive Edition**

A bit of backstory: Age of Empires was one of the first games I played as a kid and I distinctly remember the "Holy Man" mission from the "Voices of Babylon"
campaign because it was really challenging for me but I just loved playing that mission. A few months ago I downloaded AoE: DE to try to beat this mission as a
nostalgia trip and holy crap, I could not beat it for the life of me, even on the Standard difficulty. The enemy is hyper-aggressive and if you don't manage to secure
stone or gold resources on both sides of the river then you are in for a horrible time. The units available to you don't do enough damage to take out enemy buildings
in a timely manner and when you do manage to destroy something, they're going to build it back straight away. Turns out there's some kind of bug on this specific
mission that makes the AI hyper-aggressive no matter what difficulty you choose. This past week I decided to try the Greek campaign and oh my god, it's so much
easier. Tons of RTS's since this one have made significant improvements to the genre but AoE will always hold a special place in my heart.

EDIT: I finally beat this stupid Holy Man level. I had to choke them out resource wise and snipe their priests. This took way too many hours of my life. Never again
without cheats.
**Mass Effect: Legendary Edition (PC)**

Currently in ME 3 and just finished up Tuchanka. The game gets a lot of shit for toning down the RP elements and the awful ending, but the story outside of that is
still amazing. The arcs are satisfying and feel like the natural end points for their characters. I also really like how much more alive the Normandy feels in this game.
NPCs move around and talk to each other and gives them a purpose around the ship other than lore dumps.

**Guacamelee 2 (Switch)**

This the best Metroidvania I've played in a while. The map system which lets you see what upgrades you need to progress is fantastic and makes back tracking
much less of a hassle. And the upgrades serving a dual purpose of combat and traversal is great. The humor is much less referential that the first game while still
clearly paying homage to its influences. I'm only about 5 hours in, but so far this is a must play if you like Metroidvanias.
**The Dig**

Finished this a few days ago. It's probably my least favourite LucasArts adventure game, to be honest. Part of it is the puzzles that I never felt were terribly intuitive.
Regardless of the intentions behind it, it still brought out what I disliked most about point 'n' click adventure games namely trial and error clicking. I think there's only
a total of six characters in the game and only two you can interact with to some degree throughout most of the game and as such there is not a whole lot of
dialogue. Voice acting is OK. The ending left me sitting through the entire credits because I didn't think it would just end like it does. Felt very abrupt and
dissatisfactory. The animated cut-scenes looks like a coloured story board. Feel bad saying this, but the cut-scenes are for the most parts very ugly. They do not fit
the aesthetic of the actual game and they just look poorly drawn as if it came out of a cheap animated production and not something created by LucasArts and with
Steven Spielberg's name attached to it. I'm probably making the game sound worse than it actually is. While I probably wouldn't recommend this to anyone, I don't
regret my time playing it and I can at least appreciate what they were trying to do and it is a pretty unique entry in the LucasArts adventure line-up if nothing else.

**Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis**

I've played this so many times, but I have never been able to finish it for one reason or another. Was close at one point playing it on my phone, but then something
happened and my save was deleted and I didn't want to start over. Attempting once again now that I've been on something of a LucasArts adventure bender lately.
One thing that immediately sets it apart is the number of ways that you can approach puzzles. Most games only have one solution, but this one has at least some
puzzles where you can solve them multiple ways which is quite cool. One of them is one of the first things you do outside of the neat credits sequence, too. I also
know that it's one of the few point 'n' click games with multiple endings. For some reason Sophia's audio sounds noticeably more compressed than others in the
game and clicking is pretty inconsistent. Don't know if this is a problem with the actual game or it's because of the very old version of SCUMMVM the Steam version
runs on. Looking forward to getting further into this game.
Finished **Psychonauts 2**. It's my GOTY at this point even though I loved Nioh 2 on PC. It was a way longer game than I thought too.

Started **Little Nightmares** I never played it and wanted to see what it is all about. So far its awesome. I had to do some Hex editing to get it to work in Ultrawide
and still need to do some more to get the FOV right, but I see why it gets the praise it does. I will probably mash through some "spooky" games for October in my
Backlog as well as download Back 4 Blood when it hits games pass.
**Dandara (2018)** - It's a very well made 2D platformer/metroidvania with enemies you can shoot and a variety of obstacles you have to deal with. Finding certain
objects will allow you to enter places that were previously blocked and instead of being free to walk or run you can only jump between certain surfaces.

This aspect of the game creates a nice challenge because usually you have to get pretty close to an enemy in order to kill it and you need to think in advance
where you will retreat if you'll need to avoid being hit.

I deeply enjoyed this game. Every time I was about to go through a new door I was eager to see what was there. I love it that having PS Now makes me try things I
usually ignore.
*Grand Theft Auto* and *Nameless* (from Ovine By Design) suffered from technical issues, being barely playable if at all. Former is clearly superfluous by now,
especially with limited lives and stop-and-go navigation. Latter is a remake of an older game.

**Dungeon Siege: Copperhead**, a sci-fi mod for Dungeon Siege. It was stated to be one of the better mods, but I found it poorly executed. There's limited writing,
thus not much of a story beyond the standard solo-soldier attacking everyone. In respect to gameplay, weapon choice seems rather light and there doesn't feel to
be any improvement as new weapons are found, which becomes an issue when having to defeat the final opponent with a magnitude of extra hit points compared
to the previous boss (which was slain quickly.)

**Ultima V: Lazarus**. This is another dungeon siege mod, which got played second. A slight concern that I might be spoiling the original game's nostalgia, but
otherwise Lazarus seems to be much higher quality than the other mod.

The dialog system seems to be similar to the VII style - pick a dialog option, other responds, and the dialog option disappears. The dialog also seems more dynamic
than the original game, at the very least allowing conversations in the style of VI.

Gameplay - rather lethal combat, feels unexpected coming from IV and core Dungeon Siege.

Because Ultima is more of an open world, it needs taking notes. The game engine itself isn't really designed for windowed mode required to tab back and forth -
requiring a choice of quirks depending on how I use windowed mode (either command line or DxWnd.)

There's stability and performance concerns (specifically it's slow to start) but that's not unexpected for what was needed.
**Collection of SaGa**

i bought *Collection of SaGa* on Google Play and I really do appreciate having the whole trilogy in one package. I bought Final Fantasy Legend III on Game Boy
upon its initial release and tried to find the other two.

Right now, I'm playing "Final Fantasy Legend" this weekend. My lead hero is a Mutant (M), with a Human (F), a monster and a Mutant (F). Just finished the Sky
Kingdom and story of the two sisters.

Here's something to consider: Even though this game has both Weapon Durability/Usage AND Permadeath (3 strikes), those systems are actually not really a
problem at all. Money is very plentiful and weapons, spells can be bought with lots of uses before it becomes an issue.

The random/controlled chaos of the Mutant Skill Learning & Monster Transformation Feast WILL drive a lot of people up the wall! (4 Barriers say hello.                 )
**Fall Guys** was on sale for historic low of $10 this weekend, so I finally got it, and I'm glad I did. I enjoy it for what it is - A multi modal multi stage battle royale-ish
game. I'm half way through this season's levels and am happy with what I've been able to buy. Level RNG is sometimes weird, and player animation appears to be
locked at 60 FPS (higher results in blurred/jitter player movement), but I can deal with that. Already got my money's worth as far as I'm concerned for a unique
multiplayer experience, and any extra gameplay is a bonus at this point.

**Super Mega Baseball** is a great arcade baseball game with decent controls and difficulty system. I might play a season sometime when I dial in what the right
difficulty level is for me in regular games.

**Frostpunk** is something I have dabbled in again so I can try Endless mode. I picked the Builder version which has less frequent storms but I'm learning that
generator has to be built from scratch. So I dont know that I'm going to like this version of Endless. I might go to the non-serene one.
**Neo: The World Ends With You**

I'll say first that this game manages to keep the spirit of the original while being very much its own thing which given the nature of the games is a difficult task. So
we'll done Square on that front you've done amazing.

That being said I'm on the final week and can't say I've enjoyed it. It's meant to be twice as long as the original, despite the story taking place over the same
amount of time >!3 weeks!< and boy does it show, this game is so slow. There's also very little character development anywhere and the development that is there
kind of comes out of nowhere. Yeah sure, extremely rude antagonist that joined my party only two days ago (2 hours real world playtime), you suddenly saying you
don't want to lose us all doesn't feel rushed and unearned at all.

Also while this game isn't called TWEWY 2 because Square wanted to make a sequel that could be understood on its own, while the story makes sense, all the
emotional bits are references to the original. There's a reunion clearly being set up between two characters from the original. It hasn't happened yet but the game is
heading there.

The original TWEWY is in my top 3 games of all time so Neo was never going to surpass it so I just wanted a solid game and I got something quite mediocre.
**Cruelty Squad**

It's too bad it's over so quickly. I feel like it could use a lot more levels. I'm not the type to do a single mission over and over trying to find everything and beat it
every way possible (a la Hitman).

I also hate that you need to finish a level with a weapon to earn it. I basically ended up with 2 bonus weapons upon beating the game. I also never learned to fish.

This is definitely one of those games where purists would probably tell me I'm "playing it wrong" but I love the classic Rainbow 6 style gameplay loop, even if I'm not
enamored with its other systems like playing the stock market or collecting items. Underneath the ridiculous exterior it's a really great game.
**SplitGate**

well.... i really like games with such a lingering learning curve, its fun and even at free time i thought about killing enemies in different ways for some reason it give
kinnda same feeling as **Titanfall 2**(Best multiplayer FPS for me) And yeah i have also been playing a game i made called **hyperflex** i also try give it a nice
learning curve but for some reason it dosent seems perfect.
**Resident Evil VII: Biohazard + DLC**

I had previously played RE4 and RE2 Remake and really liked them. Biohazard felt very different from the other games with the shift to first person and a greater
emphasis on survival horror rather than action. I really liked the first person perspective, it felt like it made the scares more intense and controlled better. I’d prefer
gameplay with more action, but this gameplay was still really fun and the stealth sections could get rather intense. The weapons feels good to use and the
claustrophobic corridors were well-designed. The game had a bunch of scares at the beginning, but since it took a lot of hits to die, it didn’t felt as scary later in the
game. I guess I’ll just have to do another playthrough on Madhouse difficulty. Like an RE title, it was filled with puzzles and backtracking. I thought the puzzles were
just challenging enough and I was never truly stuck. The Louisiana swamp was an interesting setting since it felt pretty unique, but I didn’t think it looked very
impressive and it could be overly drab in some places. The villains were pretty creepy especially the sadistic son Lucas. >!The end of the game reveals that the
Bakers were a tragic family (besides Lucas who’s just a psychopath) who became infected after rescuing Evie. I felt that completely changed my perspective of
them and added a lot of depth to the characters.!< On the other hand, the protagonist, Ethan, feels pretty underdeveloped and he simply isn’t very expressive. I felt
like I barely knew anything about him. The story takes a while to uncover, but the revelations at the end are fantastic and the tie-ins to the rest of the series is pretty
satisfying. Moving onto the DLC, there are 8 different levels/mini games which are all about an hour or less. The gameplay in each of them is extremely diverse,
ranging from a COD zombies-like mode to a game of blackjack. Not A Hero and End of Zoe both were story-driven and offered new areas, weapons and creatures
to fight. End of Zoe had to be my favorite because punching molded was just so fun and hilarious. Just a great DLC pack overall and I wish more games offered
DLC with such experimental modes and gameplay. I’m definitely looking forward to getting RE Village when it’s on sale.

***Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition***

This is probably the last time XC will take up all of my gaming time for a week, as I am standing right in front of the last few rooms of the final dungeon. Over the
past month of playing so much, Xenoblade grew close to my heart. I think there are some gameplay elements or specific enemy encounters that simply aren't all
that great, >!such as, that horrible Lorithia boss fight.!< The sum of its parts is better than a lot of the individual aspects, but even that is actually quite impressive,
because Xenoblade features so many elements and they are so finely attuned to each other.

Soon I will face the final boss and the story doesn't reinvent the wheel, but it's very engaging and has some good twists up its sleeves. The greatest thing
Xenoblade does is let you experience said story through this amazing group of comrades that you recruit and grow with along the way on this world of epic
proportions. Scaling the titan felt like a massive adventure and I am so happy I was able to experience that.

>!The death flags for Fiora are very obvious and I am already dreading the time, when she has to say Goodbye to Shulk and the team as I am approaching Dickson
and Zanza for the final fight.!< I am going into this finale with a melancholic smile, because I will miss this lovable bunch. At least I can look forward to playing
Future Connected afterwards. :P
**Garden Story**:
I started this when it came out, and I'm still playing it! It takes me an age to finish any game. I love the music (especially summer bar!) the strange dialogue, the
melancholy story, and the adorable graphics. I'm in the last area, and I'll be sad to finish it.

**Sable**:
When I first played this I didn't like it. I thought it was one of those Game Pass games you mess around with and uninstall. Nope! Something about the music, the
graphics, the world - I'm in love. Sometimes I just jump off rocks and float, very slowly towards the ground for ages. Sometimes I just ride around on my bike or
climb buildings and rocks with no real aim. There's something so warm and cosy about this game, that just envelops me when I play it.

**Eastward**:
I started this, and I know it's good (especially the RPG game-in-a-game you play, just wow) but it just hasn't grabbed me yet. It reminds me so strongly of
Iconoclasts, even though it's a completely different genre, that I find myself distracted every time I play it, thinking of how I never finished Iconoclasts...
I've been playing **Supraland**. All I can say is that I'm very surprised and impressed. I experienced exactly what it described, a sort of 3d puzzle platformer with
non-linear exploration. What I didn't expect was just how refined the experience is.

The puzzles are are not very difficult, but every time I solve one I really feel the "a-ha" moment. More so than I did with Portal. While they're fairly simple, they're
cleverly designed.

The world is charming too, with plenty of humor sprinkled into the characters and dialogue.

Also, the game just keeps on giving with respect to the exploration aspect. I did not expect to play for as long as I did. This applies to the upgrades, which felt like
they kept on getting better throughout the game. I've just reached the point where the whole map is pretty much open to you, and I enjoyed backtracking so much
that I felt like writing this up. Give it a shot if you like the concept!
Just finished my 100% of **Psychonauts 2** , it’s gotta be GOTY contender for me right next to RE8. Tough to decide but the polish is just so so good as well as all
the charm, the gameplay, the stories that unfold. Absolutely love it, highly recommend it to anybody that considers themselves a platforming fan. I played 1 just
before the release of 2 and I even felt like 2 blew 1 out of the water.
After saturating myself thoroughly with **Valheim** last week, I've slowed down on it quite a bit due to feeling like I should be waiting to play it with my friend.
However, it seems he might be done with it, seeing as he complained how tedious and long it took to get anything done the last time we paired up.

Because of this, I've been dipping my toes in various other survival games, just for a few hours at most. **The Forest** (spent a hour chopping trees only to get
murdered by three cannibals in the middle of the night), **Medieval Dynasty** (enjoy the historical realism of this, but after a few hours I felt I spent more time
running between hamlets for quests than anything else), **Subnautica Below Zero** (I've actually played this almost to the end in early-access, so because of that
it feels like I'm just going through the motions to get back to where I was and it's losing my interest, despite being a stellar sequel to the first game). I think I've got
such a craving for this sort of genre lately is because it sets me up with a series of chores (in-game or self-proposed) and I feel accomplished and satisfied when I
work through them.

**Star Citizen:** Had a couple of friends playing it, so I decided to try and join them since there was a free weekend going on. I can definitely see the appeal. It's a
beautiful game. Love the ship designs. Everything else seems very placeholder and janky though. It crashed on me every few hours. I struggled with the navigation
UI pretty regularly, because the game either won't acknowledge whether you're correctly clicking on a destination, or it won't allow you to select it because it's not a
straight path. Nevermind if you misclick and zoom in on the wrong thing. Ship combat was aight. First-person combat is too easy. Spend more time just getting into
the pilot seat of your ship than doing anything. "ItS sTIlL A aLpHa, dood." 10 years of development and 339 million dollars in funding. I feel like every aspect Star
Citizen has is done better elsewhere. If I want space combat, I'll just play Everspace 2. If I want a scifi-fps, I can play Destiny. If I want to be a starship trucker/miner,
I'll just reinstall Elite. The only thing this game really has going for it is immersion. All the ship designs, internal layouts, and cockpit UI are quite lovely to behold. I'll
probably check it out again when they actually put out a stable beta. So maybe five years from now.
# Cruelty Squad

Stopped at the 4th level, Androgen Assault, a good while ago, and so far I'm not feeling any desire to go back and continue. It's not hard to appreciate Cruelty
Squad for its... very existence, I guess, but actually enjoying the whole thing turned out to be far tougher for me.

Still, can't say I regret getting it.

# Townscraper

Less of a game and more of a toy, Townscraper is all about building picturesque, yet hollow towns. Positively captivating for the first half an hour or so, but
afterwards it didn't really keep my attention. I'm all for sandboxes, but this one's more of a tech demo in the end, albeit a very neat one.

# Potion Craft

A shop management game where you brew potions for sale. It looks and feels absolutely wonderful, the gameplay is enjoyable, but I think I'll be shelving it for now
and waiting for the full release.
**God of War (2018)** *PS4*

Finished this one a few days ago now. I originally hadn't been interested in it since I never played the original trilogy (nor had any particular interest in doing so), but
a friend of mine convinced me that this was slightly different and that the story was really good, so I picked it up on sale and I'm glad I did.

I don't play a ton of third person action games so the combat took a little getting used to and some of it felt a little clunky at first, but when it started clicking it
actually felt really good combining combos and the weapon abilities.

The Leviathan Axe was really a pleasure once I got the hang of it! And I liked how versatile it was not just for combat, but for puzzles as well.

What really sold me is the story. Being a parent myself it was really engaging following Kratos and Atreus' bond developing >!through their shared grief and coping
with losing a wife/mother (something which I thankfully haven't experienced)!<.

Being Scandinavian it was also interesting getting their take on Norse mythology parts faithful, parts adapted to fit into the game setting and all. And they knew how
to end it on a cliffhanger, too, so I'm now quite excited about Ragnarok coming out.

I'm curious about the story setting in the older games, too (if nothing else just for some additional context about Kratos' past), but I think I may just check out a recap
video on Youtube instead of playing through them.

**Hades**
So I've kind of become addicted to this game now. I started playing this a few months ago and gave up after about 20 runs as I wasn't progressing much beyond the
second region. Picked it up again last week and defeated the final boss yesterday after 40 runs.
The game is just so polished and so smooth. There is still so much to do after beating the last boss, so many story beats to unlock. Did my first clear with the
shield, now will try with the other weapons.
Deathloop: I liked it, but not as much as the other arkane games, I'm not saying I'm disappointed, but it's not their best. Haven't finished it yet.
The invading mechanics are on point but it's hard to me finding someone to invade,that being said I get invaded almost every single map, which sometimes is
annoying, I just want to get a piece of information and be done with it.
Played on PC, only one crash, and some works behaviour when my monitor goes off (I have the auto off thing on) not playing in ultra since I read all the problems
with the port but I was t expecting to being blown away by graphics on this one, so I didn't really care that much.

Genshin impact: I've being playing this almost since launch, off and on. Fun for casual runs and exploration.

Gravity rush: saw these on sale (still on sale until Oct 1 I think, 15 for GR1 remastered and 10 for GR2) and decided check them out. They are awesome, great PS
exclusives, great characters, interesting world and the gravity shifting mechanic is tremendous fun. Highly recommend them. If you are hesitant to get both, just get
the second one and caught up on the story of the first one on YouTube or something.
Still working though Deathloop. My opinion of it has dropped the more I play it. I’ve found it more and more unsatisfying. At times it’s buggy, annoying, and kinda
janky. Certain aspects make the game feel lacking in purpose at times. And I feel too limited with my gameplay. I’m honestly not enjoying it all that much.

The things keeping me playing are the story, characters, and writing. And I must admit the game has a great sense of art direction. There are positives to the game,
but for me they are massively outshined by everything else that I find increasingly unsatisfying.

At this point I can say without a doubt it’s my least favorite Arcane game I’ve played.
**[dum-dum:](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1131530/)** came out of early access after 2 years, so I started playing. it's one of those fake operating system
things, takes place in the 80s and there's a story, but I spent an hour just fucking around, trying the settings, apps and games, reading 'lore' (not the random public
domain ebooks though), etc. pretty amusing stuff. and once the 'internet' opens up, it means more games, puzzles, tricks for the operating system and the game via
all sorts of websites.

as for the game itself, it's a lot of hacking/terminal fuckery via a bunch of different puzzles. was pleasantly surprised by the voiced fmv (had no idea what to expect),
but no subtitles for dialog will be a problem for some. not too short, plenty of optional stuff, exploration and side-quests within the context, really fun overall, but
some of it is unintuitive. on the one hand it matches the style/time period, on the other it's unintuitive. highly recommended still. I'd like to play more like this, but
[hypnospace outlaw](https://store.steampowered.com/app/844590/) might be my only option (and maybe [macdows 95]
(https://store.steampowered.com/app/948900/)), as I don't want programming or timed hacking.

**[dabado puzzles:](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1618340/)** tetris with wonderful presentation, but they made it grindy as a motherfucker. replay the same
shit over and over, pay in-game currency not only for failing but also for leaving a level without finishing it, etc. demo available and ymmv, but I found it a horrible
experience.

([last week](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/pr4gmp/weekly_rgames_discussion_what_have_you_been/hdg73gm/))
**The Outer Worlds**

I started this a few weeks ago, and finished it today, both of its DLCs included.

Honestly, I think the worst thing you can do for TOW is to come into it with the mindset is that it's trying to be Fallout. I mean, it certainly does take inspiration, but
it's also its own thing, and I can see how people were disappointed if they were expecting "Space New Vegas". It's not that, and it's largely not trying to be.

That being said, the generally mediocre reaction it got isn't entirely wrong, either. I realise these are not terribly glowing words for it in the opening paragraphs, but
it's still a somewhat enjoyable game nonetheless.

The setting's a hypercapitalist colony set in a distant star system known as Halcyon, overseen by the Halcyon Holdings Corp aka the Board, the antagonists of the
game. Corporations own just about everything here, and do just about anything in the name of profit. Profit, as it all too often is IRL, is more important than human
lives. Human lives are objects to be owned, and death is punishable because that means you're damaging company property (you are the company property).
Naturally, of course, there's also dissidents here and there who don't really like this, and going against the Board to give Halcyon a better future is sort of your main
goal (mostly by reviving the colonists of the ship you woke up on, the *Hope*.)

Anyway that's the premise of the game in my own words, and so by its nature there's a lot of corporations doing shady business and where corporations are so
integrated with daily life a lot of the citizens can't even think about life being any other way. Those who aren't contributing to company profits aren't worthy of
considering in their eyes. Naturally on almost every (major) location there's people who are trying to oppose the corporations in some way because what they're
doing isn't sustainable and because humans aren't exactly meant to only serve corporations. So a lot of your choices come down to helping the corporations,
helping those going against them, and occasionally you get a third option that's a middle ground - whether these are better or worse than the other options is
something for you to decide since they often involve compromising between the two sides of a dispute.

So as the above should indicate, there's a good deal of player choice, as is the standard for an Obsidian RPG. That also means you have your standard Obsidian
Reputation System, where you can be both loved and hated by a faction at the same time, and one of the things I'm baffled few other devs have conveniently
copied from Obsidian since it seems like such a good idea. You've got several skills and six attributes, the attributes being from 1 to 6 but each point having more
impact than other similar attribute systems, and skills are grouped up into threes or twos. Up to 50, you can invest points into all three skills under a group at once,
but after that you have to specialise and can only put points into one. You also have your flaw system but a lot of those honestly... seem too bad to really justify
taking for a perk point? A lot of the perks are somewhat bland and that's a common criticism I've seen and I broadly agree with that sentiment. If there were more
unique perks, flaws might seem better in comparison. Meltdown was one of my favourite FNV perks for example, since I loved being able to cause chain reactions
of plasma explosions with it. Nothing like that in Outer Worlds.

Combat in Outer Worlds is serviceable, but nothing too special. There's a fair number of weapons, but... I never really felt the need to use them and lot of the
seemingly unique ones felt underwhelming. Gear seems best used for skill bonuses, since you can get huge amounts of skill bonuses from them. And...

Companions. There's six companions with distinct personalities. Honestly, companions in this game are done pretty well and I'm not the best at describing virtual
people, but they each have their own quest that's become a standard in any RPG with defined companions, and each one does seem to change them in some way.
In particular I liked Vicar Max, who has a surprising amount of depth and change to him, especially after his companion quest is done. There isn't a companion I
outright hated, which is good. Outer Worlds is also much more companion-focused than Fallout, since companions give you skill bonuses just for them being with
you and have unique combat abilities. My only issue is the special animation for those abilities does not need to play every time you use them. I didn't even use any
perks to get them more often, I can't imagine how annoying those animations are when they're constantly available nearly all the time.

While most the companions are written well, I'd like to say most of the game is, but it does seem to stumble at points. The game feels like it needed at least one
more major location, because it ends far sooner than you think it would when it comes to its main plot. After Byzantium, the game ends so soon after that I was
blindsided. It felt rushed, even.

Content wise I also feel like you spend too much time in Emerald Vale and Monarch, both. Those two locations alone pretty much make up a good 66% of the
vanilla game, and Terra 2 (where Emerald Vale is located) *also* has both Roseway and Byzantium, so for a game set in space I honestly felt a little annoyed that
Terra 2 had three separate locations on it while there are planets on the star map that literally don't get visited like Hephaestus. I realise that 'it may not be realistic'
but it's 'sci fi', we wouldn't be here if we didn't want to visit other planets in the game called The Outer Worlds. Rant over. Emerald Vale at least is very good at
giving you a glimpse into the corporate dystopia that Halcyon is, issues and all, and the lengths people will go to both defend and escape it. Then there's Monarch,
which I felt was teeming with sidequests - moreso than any other in the game, and I think it's also got the largest area of land to a single location, also the only one
with multiple landing pads I believe? It's certainly unique and alien looking, but you only really have Emerald Vale, Groundbreaker, and Scylla to compare it to -
Byzantium is a few streets in a city you mostly don't see, Roseway is a corporate facility in the Terra 2 wilderness that looks very similar to the Emerald Vale. I
suppose my complaint here could be summed up as lack in variety of locations? You barely visit Scylla to begin with, it mostly exists for sidequests. Thankfully, the
DLC fixes this somewhat with the a few new locations. Peril on Gorgon adds... Gorgon, and Murder on Eridanos adds... Eridanos. Surprising, I know. Gorgon's like
a more developed Scylla, Eridanos is a facility floating in the atmosphere of a gas giant. Gorgon also has you visit a station floating in the atmosphere of a different
gas giant, Olympus. Incidentally, I've discovered a fondness for places in the atmosphere of a gas giant where you can see churning storms and one fall will end
your life.

I should speak about the DLC. Honestly, I think Peril of Gorgon is the single best piece of The Outer Worlds. It really leans to the game's strengths IMO and has
you investigating corporate cover up: what happened on Gorgon to make Spacer's Choice leave so quickly? And boy do you find out. It really leans into that
"corporations doing really fucked up stuff" vibe and I wish the rest of the game did that as well, because nothing else comes close to it. There's a particular moment
that I think is one of the strongest in the game - I don't want to say it but I'm sure anyone else who's played it knows it because it's hard to forget. But the game
should have more of that. Murder on Eridanos on the other hand... it's not as strong as Peril on Gorgon, that's for sure. It's bizarre. It's poised as a murder mystery,
and yet, there's one massive glaring flaw that ruined the entire thing for me. Right, so. **Murder on Eridanos Spoiler:** >!You can go to the Purpleberry Orchards
very early on in the DLC, where you find... parasites. Parasites sticking out of people's necks making them unnaturally happy with smiles that look forced. You
cannot bring this up to anyone during your investigation despite them being a major part of the DLC's conclusion. It's bizarre. In fact as you progress infected people
start popping up around Eridanos and you literally cannot bring these people up to anyone in your investigation. I do not understand the logic behind this.!<

Overall I would say I enjoyed The Outer Worlds, even if I have been a bit critical of it here. Just don't go into it expecting it to be Space New Vegas like a lot of
people. Out of all of Obsidian's post- FNV games, this one's probably the weakest overall IMO - I think *Pillars of Eternity 1* is their strongest post-FNV game, and
ironically if you're looking for something like a spiritual successor to FNV, then *Pillars of Eternity 2: Deadfire* is far closer to it than *The Outer Worlds* is,
especially when it comes to the factions. Strangely enough, I think TOW has made me appreciate PoE 2 more. There's a solid foundation here, and while it may not
be the best game ~~it's the Spacer's game~~, it means The Outer Worlds 2 looks promising and worthy of checking out whenever it eventually comes out if this is
what they are building upon.

This all being said... I do wish there more games where you fly about on a spaceship with your companions. The Outer Worlds has given me an itch for more of this
kind of game,
Played a bit more **[Hunt: Showdown](https://store.steampowered.com/app/594650/Hunt_Showdown/)** this week, and while some of the matches were fun we
had a couple of really unenjoyable ones, one of our games of trios set us up against a group of 3 people who had 4 bows fully loaded with frag arrows between
them (one guy had 2 equipped), and with at least one ammo box each, so we just endlessly got shelled by frag arrows for about 5 minutes before dying to them,
and another one had us queueing as duos (both of us 4 stars) and getting sent up against a match full of 6 stars (3 duos that were 6 stars, and one that were 5 & 4
stars), so we got stomped extremely quickly. Other than that we had some fun matches where we'd rock up after a fight & clean up, or were sneaking up on people
fighting the bird boss, heard 2 of them go down to it, and just cleaned the 3rd guy up & continued onwards. Slowly getting better at aiming weapons in that game as
well, I had a couple really nice gunfights with a mosin & the sparks where I managed to land most of my shots at a fairly decent range with iron sights.

Other than that I more or less spent the week sorting out PC issues (bought a new case and transferring everything into that took a longggg time, as well as doing a
clean windows reinstall to try to fix my graphics card (a 3080) performing like shit), but otherwise played a load of;

**[Diablo 2: Resurrected](https://diablo2.blizzard.com/en-us/)**, and I'm loving it (for the most part). I've only ever played D3 in the Diablo series, and I'm fairly picky
when it comes to playing super old games (I want to go revisit KotoR, but it just feels so dated to me & I can't get past it, thankfully the remaster/remake is coming
out at some point, so I'll be able to pick that up then), so I've not really played it at all beyond about 5 minutes of the Path of Diablo overhaul. It's super nice
experiencing a new (to me) ARPG game, and while there are a couple of things that bother me, it's overall been a really great experience.

I started with a Necromancer, went a mostly minion build (4 skeles, 3 skele mages, and a clay golem) & got up to Act 2 before feeling super weak without them,
which I noticed in the little bug catacombs, where they'd get stuck in a tiny hallway and it'd take me ages to progress. I rerolled into an Amazon and gave archery a
try, didn't get too far before wanting to go pure melee and switched to an Assassin dual wielding claws. I'm probably going to bounce around the classes, and
maybe even make a Druid and give that a go (since that's what I played in the beta, and really enjoyed it outside of the American ping servers, which aren't an issue
anymore (to a point, I still notice a fair bit of lag now and again)), but I'm also tempted to make a Sorceress and give magic a go.

I kind of wish they'd added a bit more QoL to this version of the game, since a few of the systems feel fairly outdated, for example in most ARPG games I play I
prefer to have health/mana next to my character, and health bars above the enemy models, rather than just on my UI & at the top of the screen respectively, and
I've seen some console/controller footage with enemies getting health bars above their heads if they're being targeted, which makes me feel like it's a thing that
*can* be in the game, but just isn't for M&KB on PC. Another one is I'd love to have a hotbar where I can see more than just 2 abilities at any one time, and while I
know that console/controller players can see at least 4, I'm not sure if there's a way to do it for M&KB. As I mentioned before there are little spurts of lag as well,
where I'll be hitting an enemy, or they'll be hitting me (which I'll see from the little retaliate circle thanks to an armour giving me some retaliate damage) but they're
fairly far away, definitely way out of melee range, so it seems like my character sometimes desyncs for no reason. I'll also notice that when I'm trying to hit an
enemy, and there's no little white 'X' that indicates the attack missed, but they also take no damage, so I'm assuming it's the same issue as before, but they're
actually further away than they look.

Thankfully those are all fairly small issues, and I'm enjoying the game overall, definitely excited to keep going & smash through the higher difficulties.

That's it for this week, but next week New World comes out on Tuesday night, which is a bit late for me for a weekday, but I should get some playtime in on
Wednesday, so I'm fairly excited for that. We're also hitting October super soon, which means a fair few more games coming out, and maybe even a (fingers
crossed) BF2042 beta.
**The Forgotten City**

Average walking simulator without any real puzzles. The sense of discovery is neat at first but your actions don't really amount to much. There are a couple
interactions where you need to figure out the correct decisions to get the desired result, but there are only a small handful of these situations. The way the time loop
works is interesting though. Story is really great though imo, which a really satisfying canon ending (there are multiple endings, as they game tells you).

**Halo: Infinite Test Flight**

The sound and feel of the game are all great, but the stutter is horrible and I am losing hope that this game will be ready for launch in about 2.5 months. Major
issues from the last flight are still present, but there are also major gameplay changes that absolutely cannot stand in a Halo game: there is **no friendly fire** and
**no collision with teammates** . Friendly fire is a staple of the series and necessary for the explosive repercussions of the gameplay. Collision is necessary for
interaction reasons, like not killing yourself with rockets when a teammate walks through your body from your backside, or an enemy running through and behind a
teammate so you can't finish them off.
**Middle-Earth Shadow of War**



So, i kinda finished it? I guess? I did everything, except for Outpost, Gondorian Artifacts, Online Stuff and the Epilogue. While i liked the ending, kinda neat with how
things turns out for the characters, gating the true ending within a series of grindy siege mechanic, i am just done with the game. I failed defending Cirith Ungol, and
have to retake the fortress again? so yeah, no, i think i'll just go to youtube with this one. I could change the difficulty into the easiest one, but nah, this game has
already overstay its welcome, doing the grindy sieges mission for 10 stages? (what the fuck) are going to sour my experience on the game as im not a fan of grinds
and repetitiveness. I'll probably wont do the DLC.



Regarding the story and characters overall, i liked it, pretty interesting, but nothing really stands out except for the ending. I still prefer the first game story. Im not
that big on LOTR role so i dont know if what the game did are inline with the books, but i did raised my eyebrow on why they turn Shelob into an attractive lady.
Gondor chapter are kinda standard stuff, interesting to see how Minas Ithil fall, but the characters are pretty bland. For Eltariel chapter, pretty repetitive, but
enjoyable to see some backstory of the Nazgul. For Carnan Chapter, its pretty varied and enjoyable, but that last recurring fights against>!Zog are pretty frustrating,
you have to purify towers while enemies keep resurrecting? repetitiveness kinda soured me on the overall quest.!< Bruz Chapters is probably my favorites of them
all. >!God dammit Bruz. Why? I liked his personality, then hated him because of his betrayal, but pity him in the end. Death would've been better for him, but i
wanted to make him overlord of Gorgoroth. So i did the siege, and actually almost died when confronting Gorgoroth overlord, but Bruz became my saviour there.
God damn, man, this gameplay is amazing on how it could make every fight feels personal. Though Bruz still muttering about the fort, pretty depressing.!<

>!Bruz isn't my first taste of betrayal though, one of the first few captains i dominate after Bruz back stabbed me. Im pretty pissed about it, makes me wary of
recruiting another strong captain, and upgrading them. Though after unlocking some skills and made the game easier, i barely care about betrayal anymore, i
upgrade my followers when i needed to, especially when trying to infiltrate the overlord or warchief, though mainly focusing on having gangs, and buffs them. I only
got betrayed 3 times so far.!<



While i do enjoy Nemesis system a lot, at some point, i just want things to be done. Trying to kill enemy warchief, they keep respawning after i kill the previous one.
Brutal difficulty makes redoing fight pretty tough, once im dead and time passed, another warchief will replaced the dead one. It was exciting for the two first fort, but
after that i just wanted things to be done quickly. So the epilogue requiring me to do this stuff again and again, its an easy skip for me. Appointing 2 spy to ambush
enemy warchief is easy mode to take over the fortress, but still, shits is too grindy and repetitive for my taste.



The parkour are still super scuffed, and annoying. Sometimes after walking on a rope, it refuse to jump to the platform connected to it. Just facing a wall sometimes
Talion refuse to climbed on it, and it always happened when im trying to run away. Felt like theres no improvement at all from the first game. The same can be said
to button responsiveness. For example, i was trying to grab an item/or artifact when im running, but pressing LB always result in me trying to grab enemies, instead
of picking up items/artifacts. Auto targeting are pretty bad as well, lots of time i ended up attacking my own followers, even sometime accidentally dominate them, or
vaulting over them as well.



Overall, good game, introducing some cool new mechanic with the siege, but ended up very repetitive and overstay its welcome. Expecting them to improve the
control, but it still shits the beds with the parkour and such. I still recommended it, but i dont think the epilogue are worth it.

**Bloodstained Ritual of the Night**

First impressions aren't that good, the opening slideshow art felt kinda cheap, just the overall presentation are kinda unprofessional somehow, the font looks bad,
the lowres character art, big ass skip button, etc. To not mince words, it looks ugly and incohesive.

But the gameplay are fun so far, need to get used to the clunky controls though. Enjoyed the shard mechanics, hidden special attack for specific weapons and
such. Disliked the side quest design though, give me this items, kill this enemy, feed me this meals, etc. Its optional for sure, but for me, it would be better if its not
there at all. Granted im still early into the game, so maybe there will be some unique side quest later?

Main story are actually interesting and intriguing, so overall, im liking it and will keep playing the game.

**Bayonetta**

Still early into the game, but so far so good. Controls super well, but im kinda overwhelmed with the combo pattern, i just ended up doing the same thing over and
over again. Story and character are interesting, silly and unashamed, seems like it'll go batshit crazy as the story goes on, so im here for it. Looks pretty good
playing maxed out on PC.
I was finally able to grab a PS5, so I picked up **Demon's Souls**. It's my first time going through the game. In terms of how far I am, I've gone >!Phalanx, Tower
Knight, Armor Spider, Fools' Idol, and I just died a couple times to Leechmonger.!< So far, for whatever reason, I'm having a much more difficult time than I did with
any of the other Soulsborne games. The enemies in the Prison of Hope in particular were extremely rough, more-or-less 1-shotting me if I got comboed.

I'm enjoying it, but it very much feels like a remaster of an older game.

* The item burden system feels extremely outdated. It's a bummer having to put equipment in storage just so that I can grab the new stuff while I'm exploring.
* So far, with the exception of the tutorial boss which you're intended to lose to and the >!Armor Spider!<, every boss has felt like a gimmick boss, which I'm not a
fan of. I prefer more traditional fights.
* The death run to a boss can be rough. Fortunately, I was able to beat 3/5 of the bosses I've seen on my first try, but the Depraved Chasm runback is brutal. As far
as I can tell, I have to kill the vast majority of the enemies in the level before I can get back to him. The level is extremely cramped, and there are multiple enemy
packs literally standing on the bridges to prevent you from sprinting past.
* The enemy resistances seem extremely specific. One of the first zones literally says "hey all of the enemies here will only take noticeable damage from thrusting
and magic attacks." Sure enough, my bastard sword barely hurt them, and I needed to go back and upgrade a spear to noticeably damage them.
* I have no idea what world tendency is. As far as I can tell, the only tutorial message the game gives you is "light world tendency = enemies are easy, dark world
tendency = enemies are hard."

One thing that's kind of a love/hate thing is that the weapon collision physics has been extremely accurate. I find myself bouncing against walls, ceilings, arches,
and everything in between much more often in this game than in previous games. In previous games, I found that most of the time, it was pretty inconsistent and
didn't really affect my weapon choice that much. But so far, I find myself using a spear more than my bastard sword.

But god damn does this game look beautiful. In terms of aesthetics, my favorite area so far has been the Prison of Hope. Incredible enemy design, and stepping
outside of the prison and seeing the tower in the distance was amazing.
FF14 (played about a month), in it for the story but the gameplay and raids are fun. ARR story is kinda long and boring but not so boring I'd want to drop, right now
im too invested in the characters and plot to stop and reading about how better the expansion stories are makes me hopeful.

As a newbie PLD, it sucks to not know what to do during raids. I wished there were ways to learn about the mechanics instead of trial and error (or googling
guides). Having a party wipe because of your inexperience can be demoralizing
Bayonetta 1 after watching the trailer for Bayonetta 3. I played Bayonetta before moving onto Devil May Cry 5. Both games play really well and are a blast, despite
Bayo 1 being somewhat old. Pleasantly surprised that my memory muscle for the game is still there.

For complaints, it would've been great to have a dedicated button for skipping cutscenes. The game also has some cheap moments with QTEs, enemy
introductions attacking you right after cutscenes, and some platforming sections where I accidentally fall to my death. Sure, they're all unavoidable, but nuisances.
Does anyone else feel like esports and the pro scene is ruining the more competitive games?

Ive been playing valorant and apex quite a lot lately climbing the ranks and can see that the "meta" culture in these games is influenced so heavily by pro streamers
and the esports tournaments.

Cant play the character you like because meta requires the optimal team composition.
Cant use the weapons you like because meta.

The whole culture of min-maxing every little thing to get an edge over your competition is bananas.


WoW classic suffered something similar with guilds becoming toxic over perfecting raid clear times.

I feel like these games are no longer played for fun.

End rant.
Well I was hoping to platinum **Marvel's Spider-Man: Ultimate Edition**, including all the DLC, but because video games, one boss is impossible to beat and it's
literally the first one in the third DLC. My own fault, I should just stop buying DLC, because it just ruins any positive experience I had with the main game.

This subreddit is allergic to opinions.
**The Dark Pictures: Man of Medan (Xbox One)**

Oh boy, where do I even begin? It doesn't bode well for a game if even the title can't be displayed without some hard stutter. Performance is all over the place, fps
seems to be sub-30 most of the time, but some sections feel like they're suddenly closer to 60. There are several graphical errors, especially around character
models against a backdrop of the sea.

On one hand, the game wants you investigate areas as thoroughly as possible. But on the other hand, the game doesn't do a very good job of indicating which path
is the point of no return when you're at a crossroads. I get that the characters aren't action heroes, but it utterly breaks the immersion that every ankle-high object
presents an insurmountable obstacle. The walk speed is atrociously slow and it bloats the length of the game. Last but not least, NPCs managed to softlock the
game by blocking doorways.

One of the most frustrating experiences I've had in a long time.
Paused on **Eastward** until the Switch patch hits so that I can grab two abilities I missed that are unobtainable right now due to a bug. Otherwise have been
absolutely loving the game. There's a ton of dialogue, but I've enjoyed the characters and world as well as the soundtrack. The gameplay is decent, but the overall
package is just so charming.

While I'm waiting on that patch, I've been going through **NieR Replicant** which has been great as well. I'm almost to ending A, I think, and am trying to get
whatever weapons I can right now so that I don't have to do much collecting later. I think Automata is much better as a game (granted, I haven't finished yet) but
Nier is still fantastic in its own right. The only thing holding it back is some QoL stuff and the fetch nature of some of the side-quests. It's a little disappointing that
some of the side-quests are absolutely fantastic and then some are just...not worth playing but still necessary to get all of the weapons. The actual main game,
however, is really special and fun so far, and the characters are great.

Lastly, in my efforts to play every RE game, I powered through **Resident Evil Survivor 1 & 2**. They are terrible lol but at least they're only 90 minutes long each.

[Games Played in 2021 - Ranked, courtesy of GG|](https://ggapp.io/DC/lists/games-played-in-2021-ranked-0kiEIEv0)
**The Ascent:** Overall I enjoyed the game, although i keep having this nagging feeling that they could have created an overall better game with the same
fundamentals. The actual gameplay is fun, but the overall storyline is kind of disjointed and forgettable. Other complaints:

&#x200B;

* I ran into several bugs that required me to restart missions
* Traversal, especially later in the game when you have to go up/down several floors for a single quest, can get pretty tiresome.
* The game throws a ton of sidequests at you that you can't actually do for several more hours. In some cases, the necessary level is way above your current level.
In others quests require you go to to locations that aren't unlocked until later on in the story
* There's a ton of weapon options, but you don't have enough upgrade components to upgrade everything. So I ended up hoarding upgrades until the very end of
the game because i didn't want to blow my components on weapons that might get outclassed later on.

&#x200B;

Again, despite the complaints I still enjoyed it, and I think the devs have a solid base from which they could create a much improved sequel as long as they address
some of the QOL and flow issues present in the game.
Deathloop

Update to previous post here. I beat it last night. Without repeating myself too much and going on a long ass rant,(still did I guess lol) I’ll just say that I didn’t really
enjoy it much. I often found it annoying to play, I felt too limited with my moment to moment gameplay, and the mission structure was annoyingly tedious. Too much
“go here at this time of day to find something just to be told to go somewhere else to find something else because I didn’t find all the answers at the first place”.
Seemed like a really lazy way of forcing the player to loop and go between areas.

I will give it some praise though. Like their past games, this one has an art direction that I believe should win awards. It has such a unique and satisfying style and
look to everything. The environments look great and feel real. Also, the voice acting and writing was without a doubt the highlight of the game. Colt especially was
hilarious and I always enjoyed hearing him talk. Julianna was also great. And it was nice to have a protagonist talk like this in a FPS.

But anyways. Overall I’d call it a disappointment and I don’t see myself replaying it ever. And with it being the last Arkane game PlayStation will ever get, it’s
disappointing but also not that this last game wasn’t that great. On one hand I would have loved a real banger send off. On the other, if this is what they’re making, it
doesn’t instill much confidence in their future games. So maybe I won’t be missing out on much if I never bother to get an Xbox in the future.

Kena: Bridge Of Spirits

Started this shortly after finishing Deathloop. Early impressions are positive-ish. I can’t say I was expecting a lot so what I’ve seen so far hasn’t felt like a let down.
But it does feel a bit meh. Like it looks great for sure. And it’s not a bad game. But it’s a little stiff with its movement and some animations. I don’t see much purpose
to truly explore everywhere since the one currency seems to be only for hats for the little guys. Which is absolutely meaningless to me. If I want cosmetics it’ll be for
my character. And the other currency is for player upgrades, which is fine. But if this is all there is to the game then that’s pretty lackluster. Also I’m not that big into
how cutesy and child like it all is. I get it, those things have their place. That’s fine, I would just prefer something a little more like Ratchet and Clank I think.

It’s fine though. I wasn’t expecting much, and after Deathloop it’s nice at least to have a straight forward game where I can just explore, collect things, fight some
stuff, upgrade my character, and work through a story. So I can let things pass. I’ll definitely keep playing.
I've never played Dishonored but Prey is one of my favourite games. Definitely give it a go dude
Prey is in my personal top 10 list of best games ever. Arkane is such an amazing developer, i love their games.
Looks interesting. Added to my PS wishlist, thanks.
Hob is a lot of fun when it isn't crashing on you every 30 minutes or so. Hope it goes better for you than it did for me.
There are addons/mods that do a lot of the things you are talking about (specifically talking about making it so that you don't lose geo when you die).
I'm playing through HK now too, and yes I also don't like the application of Dark Souls mechanics in this genre. I once died in a risky area and spent way too long
trying to save my Geo. I gave up and became terribly poor. This really stalled my progress. I much prefer the straightforward save rooms found in Metroid.
120 stars is indeed really hard.

Tick tock clock can get fucked
> getting 100 coins in a couple of levels.

This sounds physically painful.
I replay Mario 64 about once a year, and its always a 120 star run until I hit Rainbow Ride 100 coins lmao. Even knowing the route to avoid using the carpets is a
pain in the ass, since it requires some really tight timing on some walljumps.
There was no BTB this weekend. It's happening next weekend.
So I grew up as a huge fan of the GBA games, but I never had a SNES. So I played SM on Wii Virtual Console and Switch SNES online. I personally think the
controls in SM are acceptable, and if you already have Nintendo Switch Online just play that version.

Here is a very spoilery tip if you get horribly stuck in SM like I did for my first time: >!power bomb the glass tube.!<

If you don't have a 3ds for Samus Returns, I would download r/AM2R (super high quality fan remake of Metroid 2) on Android, Linux or PC. Hardcore Metroid fans
really love this remake - it is the Zero Mission of Metroid 2. They consider it to be good enough to be considered as "official".
I dropped out of Xenoblade X in Chapter 3 or so, but you’re only able to fly Skells 100+ hours into the game?
It's nice to see somebody else who didn't get the flight module until the 100 hour mark, I thought I was crazy, given how so many people seem to rush the story and
get skells at like 15 hours and flight at 30, lol.

Personally, I really liked that pacing of upgrades. It meant at the "one third" and "two third" mark of the game, you obtained something that fundamentally changed
how you interacted with the world. Helped keep things fresh for me despite the 150 hours I clocked in total. So many other games will introduce all the tools pretty
early and then burn themselves out I feel

The other modern XCOM games (Enemy Unknown and XCOM 2) have much larger maps where you can move/explore without enemies in sight / without engaging
enemies. This eliminates the Breech mechanic, but does sometimes incentivize slowly creeping across a map because of how important the timing is on when
you're spotted.

Both games feature the same turn order, and both games generally have an attack end the turn (although some abilities change this).

Basically, Chimera Squad is a very streamlined version of the mainline XCOMs; if you don't like the core gameplay, I doubt you'll enjoy them. If you think having
more tactical and strategic options across longer missions and a longer campaign would help, then you should check them out.
It has always bugged me that they didn’t deliver on the brother betraying and possibly killing the sister. It was hinted at a fair amount and seemed like the obvious
next step for the story. And the brother actually started to become a good and interesting character before they just kill him off. Then we’re just stuck with the shitty
sister and it lacked any pizazz.

And the problem with the humor in this is started to incorporate more modern references and topics, much like how the twins were fuckin streamers....*puke*. I
know I don’t remember 99% of the jokes and dialogue from the previous games but it didn’t seem to be the same way for the most part. Making things topical or
trendy is exactly how you fuck it all up.
> But, damn, this game could have been so much better.

At least it's this way instead of gameplay being bad with a really good story. As long as the gameplay is great, it still stays as a fun game to play muted on the side
while watching shows or something, which is pretty much what I'm looking for in games like this.
The new hitman trilogy is a good game. Very impress how good the map is, but few kinda weak.
Loved Hitman II. Still need to go back and do the DLC levels & rather excited to do them before I get around to Hitman III eventually.
I remember commenting to not skip ODST on your Reach post all those weeks ago! Glad that you ended up enjoying it :D
> especially once you make a build you like.

This was a big issue, yeah. I ended up with a well rounded set of 3 great guns around hour 5, and despite briefly trying out a few other builds, I never had much
reason to change up my loadout for the last 10 hours of the game. I think they could have done more to make that part of the game remain relevant all the way
through.
I'm kinda having the same experience sadly. They really needed to add more quality of life improvements like a skill bar.

The worst problem I've personally had was that I played for a three hour stretch, completed a good chunk of Act 2, got disconnected, and the progress did not save.
I have no desire to open the game back up.
Yeah, I can see this. I played a lot of D2 (several 90+ characters) and the thing is that the game really doesn't open up until you're well into Nightmare. LoD flattens
it out a bit with the 3 barbs fight but still, your best skills aren't available until 30 and they're not useful until sometimes 35 or 40.

Most of your skills aren't powerful enough and you don't have gear to support it until then. One of the classic examples is a WW Barb. You need dual leach rings to
make it work and it's not until you have like 5 or more points in WW that it'll do enough damage to sustain itself. Plus your low level dual leech rings are only going
to be like 3%.

It's a game where twinking goes a long way and if you're just starting from scratch, especially in single player, it's going to be painful.

I'm not sure how they could've handled it better but it was something I saw coming a mile away. Act 3 is just going to wreck most people starting out on a new
character with no twink gear.

The duping is an interesting problem because the original game's drops were somewhat balanced around that. If you take away the dupes, then the chances of
getting good gear just become abysmal.
I've been playing D2R too.

I share some of your thoughts. Note that after a few hours in, everything becomes substantially more playable as you get a bit more buffed and equipped.

But yeah, it's def dated and I feel like the controller UI could have been done a bit better.

I'll probably play it through just because my favorite genre of game is increasingly "game I can play absentmindedly while I listen to audiobooks or talk on the
phone."

I understand why they didn't - the hardcore diablo fanbase appears to me as a collection of legit mentally unbalanced adults - but I do wish they went for a much
enhanced, modernized gameplay remake instead of a reskin.

As it stands, I don't know D2R will only appeal to people that loved D2 to the point they continued to play it over the decades. And no one else lol.
well ofc, it's same old Diablo II wrapped in overlay new graphics on new engine. Literally nothing else is touched, no QoL, no improvements to mechanics,
NOTHING. So obviously this will feel dated as fuck.
This game was a major pleasant surprise for me. Info on games is so readily available thanks to the internet these days that usually when I buy a game, I kinda
know going into it whether I'm going to like it or not. At least in a general sense.

Got this on a whim and absolutely loved it. One of the best sci-fi stories I've seen in a game. If they took the script and turned it into a netflix show it could be
phenomenal. I love it as a game of course but I think it could translate well to TV.

And the reveals, wow. Most stories are lucky to pull off a big twist or two. This game keeps throwing them at you and they somehow all work. Like you say it was so
satisfying to see everything click together. The combat is ok but its the story, the art design, and the characters that really sold the game for me.

This is one of those rare games I feel like I need to evangelize for. I wish it had sold more copies but I think for the budget it had it did alright.
>There's a lot to like in the game. My favorite part is that, even though it has a very complex (and occasionally convoluted) plot with twists and turns, by the time
you're done you'll have a full picture. And it's not about having a happy or satisfying ending, but one you'll understand.

100% this. There are just way too many shows that either introduce too many crazy unanswered questions (and fail to answer them satisfyingly) or don't introduce
enough to keep the story interesting. 13 Sentinels is really good about having all kinds of weird things where you are guessing what is going on... and by the end
100% of relevant questions are resolved satisfyingly.

And on a side note... I always just appreciate when a game/show whatever is able to effectively use comedy in their writing. It always is a plus because a lot of AAA
games don't really do that.
Oooh I’m so excited for this game! Getting a ps5 delivered tomorrow! Just need a tv to go with it and I’ll pick this up.
Everywhere you're supposed to go in mirror's edge is bright red lol
The character writing in 3 is brilliant as always and really carries the main story. Theres serious issues with the main plot throughout though and the issue with the
ending is more that the character writing naturally runs out that point exposing it. Without that you're right, its still a really enjoyable story.
I also think at this point psychonauts is my goty. I find that I prefer games that are interesting over games with perfect execution at this point in my life and every
level of psychonauts 2 did something that had me laughing or just having a crazy time. I’ve heard similar things about it takes two, so I might give that a shot
Those are some oldies my friend, I haven't played Dungeon Siege in a long time!
Might be worth looking up a few of the bonus levels you can unlock via secret exits in other levels.

I don't normally replay levels in games much but with a few upgrades you can truly pull off some wild stuff in cruelty squad. It begs to be broken.
Sable is the same studio as hyper light drifter right? I love the art style and really want to check it out if it comes to playstation someday.
i think the idea behind raids is to accomplish them through group communication.
also waiting for potion craft to come out of early access. I was pointed to it after playing [apotheker](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1429950/Apotheker/),
which is a bit more puzzly probably, less of a management aspect, but for me it was a plus. all these games look good on paper but I don't want do deal with shop
management and time constraints, though apotheker also has the 'you have 5 days to make this potion' thing and one playthrough consists of 14 days (I think).
Congratulations! I also escaped for the 1st time in my 40th run.

Absolutely superb game, deserved all the praise. Starting playing month and a half ago and still going strong!
You know you can turn off player invasions right? It’ll just make Julianna an AI. And for me she’s barely invaded me at all. Like I think I’ve fought her all of 4 times.
Minus a few where she did invade and I either died from something else before fighting her or I reset my run because the whole thing went to shit and I wanted a
reset. Still though, she’s left me alone for the most part.

And in my experience with invading, it’s been a mixed bag. Some have been easy as hell, others I’ve died instantly, others I’ve died from people I couldn’t see or
find. And most of the time the matchmaking has taken longer than I feel it should.
The thing to note is that Juliana is only meant to be able to invade if there is a visionary alive in the zone you are in.
I think it had a time period of Honeymoon Phase due to the studio (Along with the concept being really cool). Seeing people more open to critiques now.

I don't think it's a bad game, just was hoping for a lot more polish and more realized systems.
Why do you like Diablo 2 more than 3? I played Diablo 2 like crazy back in the day so debating getting it for nostalgia, but if it’s your first time playing it.
> no friendly fire and no collision with teammates

I’m guessing that those will be turned on for ranked playlists and off for social. I believe Counter Strike has the same setup.
The easiest way around the silly grinding in the end is to do the stronghold battles immediately, no matter how badly you’re gonna get creamed. If you win by some
miracle, that’s nice, but when you almost certainly lose, the fortress you just lost gets populated with a whole bunch of nice, juicy, high-level orcs that you can then
pick off/dominate on their own to retake the fortress.
The bosses were what stuck out the most in my criticism of the game. Most of them are shit. Some are a complete joke and hardly qualify as a boss fight at all,
though talking more in depth on that will be spoiler territory. All I can say is the whole game is a mixed bag of boss fights. Some are good and decent, at least for
the game it is and when it first came out. Other are stupid easy and underwhelming. And the rest are so bad that it feels like a joke.

I enjoyed the game for the most part but it definitely landed near the bottom of my list for best to worse souls games. The fact that it was remade is the only thing
that saves it.
Going back to Demon's Souls after playing everything that came after it is definitely rough. Some of the runs back to bosses are absolutely awful, although most of
the bosses are pretty easy in comparison to the later games.

The upside is that you can easily leave an area and attempt one of the others if you get stuck, then come back later with upgraded or more effective gear. Been a
long time since I played but I remember leaving the Leechmonger boss until I'd beaten every other area, which made the whole of world 5 a cakewalk.

World tendency and character tendency are terribly explained, you might as well just read the wiki page for it. Thankfully the remake no longer has "server
tendency" added to the mix. The short version is that white tendency makes the game easier but enemies give fewer souls and drops, and black is the opposite.
There are also a few areas and items that you need strong enough tendency one way or the other to access, and NPCs and enemies that will appear. Dying in body
form will shift you towards black (I didn't know this and ended up pretty much pure black across the board lol) while defeating bosses and phantoms will shift you
towards white. All in all though it doesn't have that much effect on a casual playthrough and can be ignored entirely if you aren't a completionist
Glad you're enjoying ARR! It can be a slog, but it pays off.

As for wiping, I wouldn't worry too much. Most players are really nice and understanding, especially since they're probably going through the leveling roulette and
expect newbies. If anyone wants the duty to go faster, they'll probably tell you the strategies. If you're really worried, when you reach a boss you could ask "anything
I should know about this one?" or something to that effect before fighting.
I don't feel like most online games have been played for fun since like 10 years ago, that's (part of) why I generally don't play them. As one example I played
League of Legends for a little while in 2013 and everyone I played with was so toxic even in the unranked modes that I had zero desire to actually learn any of the
strategy or more advanced mechanics or metas or any of that shit, it's just not fun.
I know what you mean, but I think I'd place the blame more on a general "ease of access to information" rather than just esports. Everybody is plugged into *some*
social media now, be it reddit, twitter, twitch, youtube, or whatever, whereas two decades ago, you'd only ever go on a UT forum if you were *hardcore* into UT.

Like...the fraction of the CoD playerbase that learned dropshotting in CoD4 from Blame Truth or whoever in 2007 is probably much smaller than the fraction of the
CoD playerbase that has ever opened a twitch stream and seen Shroud, Dr Disrespect, etc slide-hopping in Warzone in 2021. More people out there *know* what's
"optimal," so there's more people *playing* optimally. Decades ago, that wasn't really widespread knowledge always
Have you looked up a guide or something, or just changed the difficulty? I recall a few difficult bits in the DLC especially the third one, but nothing that should be
particularly hard to beat.
The dlc for sure ramps of the difficulty and at times it was very frustrating. The enemy bases get fuckin obnoxious with how many enemies come at you.
I'm with you. I did manage to beat them on ultimate but it was a terrible experience. The first DLC is mediocre. The other 2 are just awful, and have few redeeming
qualities.

The most annoying enemies in the game, dumb bosses, and the story becomes dumb as rocks.
Does gameplay pick up eventually? I'm maybe three hours in, and so far, every encounter feels pretty much the same. I still only have the one augment, so I'm
hoping gaining more will help.
You're not the first person to tell me that about Prey! Stoked to give it a go. I really want to play Deathloop but I'm going to be responsible and wait for it to hit
Gamepass next year.
As someone new to Arkane would you recommend Prey over Dishonored?
Wow. That's bad, very bad. I noticed it runs awful, sure I don't have the greatest PC ever but it should handle this game at medium but it barely hot 18FPS. Luckily
the game is a beauty even on low so I can't complain.
That would be great, unfortunately playing the PS4/5 version though so no mods for me
Yeah it made me dread the platforming sections, since dying often meant you lost geo instead of fighting like in darksouls. Not very fitting
I don't know how far through you are, but what I did is grab the fragile greed charm and the one that picks up all the geo for you. Makes it easy to farm geo just
running around the early areas to buy whatever you need, and thankfully there isn't that much that you really need to buy
Ohhh, I saw clips of people driving warthogs, so I assumed that was in. Awesome, I didn't miss out on it then!
Didn't the creator of AM2R get a job at Moon studio working on the Ori sequel?
You can get Skells in Chapter 6 and then get the Flight Module in Chapter 9. If you make a beeline for the story missions you could maybe get it in 10-20 hrs.

XCX starts off really slow and difficult until you get a Skell. When you get that licence it's like a breath of fresh air and you can suddenly punch the crap out of all
that difficult stuff you couldn't handle before. Really opens up the game a whole lot so I recommend powering through it.

I've been doing all side content as it unlocks with each story chapter so that's why I have so many hours under my belt.
The game is incredibly open and there’s an insane amount of content.

Basically, someone could unlock flight at hour 10 or at hour 100 and I wouldn’t raise an eyebrow. Personally, I think I unlocked flight at around hour 40.
I felt the same way with the staggered release of skells and flight. It's given the world a new and exciting feel each time as I can reach more and more places and
beat up more tyrants than I could before. Also makes me feel a lot better about sucking a lot at combat at the start.
Actually the turn order is different as well. Xcom chimera squad has a sort of initiative system where each squad member and enemy acts on their own turn, but the
other Xcom games only have the player turn and the aliens turn.
Do you feel like the stealth aspect was lacking? It felt like 99% of the guns and trinkets were for more guns blazing approaches. Hell there’s only one silenced
weapon from what I’ve seen.

I feel like the game should also let you have all the powers at once. That would make stealth more interesting since I could really experiment. Having only 2 at once
feels very limiting, especially since blink feels like a necessity, so I feel like I really only have one choice of power at a time. And when I can’t switch things on the fly
it feels even more restricting.
It’s odd because part of me feels like they should have made it so that because you went on a murder rampage in earlier areas. Enemies progressively got stronger
weapons during the loop.

To the point where to get the strongest stuff it was because you were having a murder party at the end.

The problem is that only snowballs murder heavy players more.

I think ultimately the issue is there’s way too much currency in any given run which means it’s always easy to conserve whatever you want.

At no point did I ever think. “Fuck I really want to keep thing X I guess I’ll need to dismantle something I don’t need as much”

I ended up with so many weapon trinkets not because I ever used them but because throwing 20-30k residuum into the bin seemed stupid.
Not saying the system is great, but did you know about setting up hot keys for your left and right mouse? You can set your F keys to switch left or right mouse to a
skill of your choice.

The shit with it not saving is ass though, so I understand why you'd put it down.
>And the reveals, wow. Most stories are lucky to pull off a big twist or two. This game keeps throwing them at you and they somehow all work. Like you say it was
so satisfying to see everything click together.

After finishing the "mandatory intro chapters," I chose to do Iori's second chapter first, and when it ended with the reveal that >!Iori is Morimori!< , I knew I was in for
a wild ride - That's the kind of thing that could be "the one plot twist" of most games, and here it was in my very first chapter, haha

Obviously, good stories are way more than just "numbers of plot twists," but there's something to be said about a story that CONSTANTLY tosses in twists and
turns and yet feels satisfying and cohesive, rather than a random stream of events
In reality, things only go red when you get close, the red thing may be obscured by scenery, or there just isn’t a red thing yet (like the indoor sections).
Yeah I would love to play Take Two Myself, but it's a co-op game and my gaming schedule is typically only weekends so it is hard to find someone to co-op with.
Kena is another game I really want to play after all the praise its getting.
I believe the HLD studio is working on Solar Ash for the PS5 unless they have multiple dev teams.
I don't think so. It's on PC as well as Xbox. If it could run on the Switch I'd get it on there, if it was ever released.
If you enjoy the art style, then check out the Incal, and other comics by Moebius. That's where they got the visuals from
Potion Craft doesn't actually have any time constraints. Your customers will wait for as long as you want.
I’m on 40 too, I dropped hades one time, then he comes back full again and got me by a hair. I rage quit. I’m going to try again today I’m so close.
Yes I known about that, I disabled it w couple of times when I was too fed up and just wanted to complete an objective and be done with it.
I still like the invasion mechanic though
For me, part of why I’m not digging it is because it’s just not like Prey as much as I wanted it to be. I LOVED Prey and this game has done everything it can to not
be that kind of game and it’s very disappointing. I get wanting to do new things and I can’t fault them for that. But I hated Moon Crash and this is just an extension of
that same direction. Not a fan.
I don't think I'd say that I like 2 more than 3. I'd say 3 is probably higher on my enjoyment list than 2 at the moment, what with some of the QoL things (hotbar,
desync, stuff like that) drawing 2 down a bit, but I'm enjoying it since it's a new experience for me, and I'm always there for new ARPG games.

Something that 2 does better than 3 (in my opinion anyway) is itemization. I'm always a fan of ARPGs that don't do what Diablo 3 does and force you into just
wearing set/legendary items, and gives rares/magics an actual use. Something like Path of Exile comes to mind with how bonkers rare items can get.
I actually tried it right away trying to defend Cirith Ungol, and got my ass beat. Im trying to cheat by alt+F4 ing the game, but im too late, so i had to retake the
fortress again. By that point, i was already kind off tired after killing warchiefs multiple times just to attack those four fortresses to unlock the Bright Lord mission. To
do it again just for the final cinematics, and i search that you had to defend those fortresses multiple times for ten stages against high level enemies, while my
ingame money are already dwindling so i dont have enough to upgrade stuff. So no, i dont think i will.

I youtube the final cinematics, and it was actually a nice closure for Talion. but IMO, its not worth the hassle of grinds and repetitiveness of it all.
Its funny, because DeS lands near the *top* of my rankings partly because of the boss fights. I really like how they're all "gimmick fights", i.e., they're all about
creating a memorable encounter rather than a "good fight," and most of them have some trick to them.

But a large part of that is probably because I don't really value the combat in the Souls games as much as most other people, and I'm drawn to them far more for
the sense of adventure. So, the nontraditional bosses that you need to "figure out" as opposed to "learn the patterns" vibe more with what I look for in those games
I had a quick look but I couldn't find an option to change difficulty.
Yeah, I had to grind it for a while. That fight is full of weird bullshit, like having invincibility frames during her kicks, it being near impossible (if not completely
impossible) to dodge the third kick, and instances where you'll take damage even if her hits don't actually land. Also, even if she's mid-electrocution or webbed up,
she'll still interrupt you if you connect your forth hit in a combo. Oh yeah, and if she's far away, she'll summersault across the roof which looks weird and glitchy.

The best character in this DLC by far, was Black Cat, who was killed off early because the game wanted to focus on fucking Screwball and Hammerhead, with
enemies who are all voiced by Barret from Final Fantasy VII Remake.
Different augments and tacticals do provide some variation. E.g. there are tacticals that aren't just "thrown aoe grenade" of some flavor, like placeable turrets or
robots you can pilot yourself. Enemy variety also picks up which pushes you to do more weapon and loadout swapping and be more adaptive. But overall there's
not a massive amount of combat variety, and that's definitely something they could have done a better job on.
You've probably seen it in the context of Deathloop discussions but I highly recommend playing without waypoints in Prey or Dishonored(esp in 2). Rather than
disable it in the HUD, I would just manually toggle off each objective because sometimes it *is* useful to see some obscure location or objective that you just can't
find.
If u are more into a more scifi/horror setting yes.
Thanks for the tips. I haven't sworn off the game, but I did have to take a break. I think I just got very unlucky to die in a dangerous area at a time where I really
needed to buy a few things - including opening a bank account so that this doesn't happen again.
just a new map added on Sunday, looks a bit like Relic but smaller. Next weekend should have a mix of what we've seen so far and BTB so it's gona be great
I don't know. Have you played the Ori games? I've been thinking of playing them since I love Metroid, but I'm having a hard time getting into other games in the
genre like Hollow Knight.
You can get silenced SMG, silenced tribunal, and obviously the nail gun.
Yeah, it felt like there was nothing pushing stealth as a reasonable option. Like, it was there as something you could do, but walking through and headshotting
everyone was just always so much faster and easier.

Comparing to dishonored, stealth was also helped a lot in those games by having constant access to quick saving and quick loading. The structure of Deathloop
gives breaking stealth much bigger consequences, which makes it an even worse prospect compared to just shooting everyone.
Yep! That’s what I was doing. :)
I'm pretty sure it was just one guy who wrote the script too. Which is crazy but at the same time it makes sense, like maybe that's what helped to make the plot feel
like a cohesive whole.
Oh man I got sable and solar ash completely mixed up! Thanks for the clarification.
thanks, that's good to know. I prefer games to be games, not a reflection of reality, not when it comes to stuff like this or 'survival elements' or 'quick, get out of the
building before it explodes in 25 seconds' or whatever.
It's a good idea but it's not tuned at all. I know Julianna's already have a queue time but it's silly that there's no semblance of match making or scaling to it.

The first few times I was invaded by another player, it was me with 0 infused items yet against Julianna's that were already completely geared out. I got suspended
and karnesised off the mountain and then tagged with poison bullets (I hadn't even experienced poison at that point in the game yet).

I know it shifts in Colt's favor once they're even, but it is a really stupid idea to unleash fully kitted experienced players on people who just made it past the intro
levels.
This is the Dishonored team and didn't work in Prey at all, so why did you expect that?
I struggle to find anything memorable about them aside from how underwhelming they were. Take for instance >!the final final boss. It’s literally this blobby mass
that just kinda slithers around and jumps at you. There’s nothing to it. You just stab it a handful of times and boom game over essentially. No challenge to it, no
cinematic flair even. Same issue with what’s her face in the abortion pool. She just sits there and occasionally uses a magic attack that is nothing more than an
inconvenience. There is her body guard dude, but even he is hardly a real fight. I could at least understand the dragon god to a degree. There’s at least some
pizazz to it where you gotta get to the giant arrows and launch them. And yet, that’s still super underwhelming because it’s tedious and the opening cinematic
makes him out to be a real threat. Like I just assumed he’d be the final boss. And then you just find him locked up underground. What...!<

As a long time souls player and fan, and newcomer to demons souls thanks to the remake, I actually am surprised we’ve gotten the games we we did after it
because of how lackluster the biggest moments of it are. Almost like the bosses were an afterthought at the end of production.
The Ori games are the reason for my Metroidvania obsession! Along with Hollow Knight, they are some of the best in the genre. If you loved HK, you will definitely
love the second Ori game, as it took a TON of inspiration from HK.
I think I saw the smg a few times but it wasn’t clear to me whether it was silenced or not. It said it was quieter but it didn’t look different and it didn’t say HOW quiet
so I didn’t bother. If that’s actually it then I feel the game did a piss poor job of properly converting that information.

Something it actually has a problem with in general with items. None of the guns have stats, none of the items say how much of something they actually do. It’s just
a bunch of “this thing does damage” and “this thing does this thing better, but we won’t tell you any specifics”. Kind of a weird oversight for the game, especially
when you play as Julianna and the game becomes PVP. That’s when you’d really want to know exactly how much things are changing or improving.

Not sure which gun the tribunal is.
That’s the worst part, if stealth goes wrong, then it really goes wrong a lot of the time. Everyone is alerted to you, they always seem to know where you are, and if
they don’t they’re still hyper aware of their surroundings so if you’re in their line of sight ANYWHERE they instantly see you and once again you’re on the run.

I’ve had enemies be alerted to my presence even when I was completely hidden and standing still...crouched. The AI is bullshit in this, or sometimes just really
stupid. No happy in between.
Because it’s still the same company? Because despite being different groups of the same studio the games all clearly share the same DNA. I mean look at the fact
that we got a rogue like dlc for Prey and then a somewhat rogue like new IP.

It’s not like Machine Games made this.
It being quieter means suppressed.

Tribunal is the pistol not the handcannon.
There’s only a few places it can really go wrong and most of them running away with shift is enough.

Most other times the area only has 6 enemies within alert range Only really a problem if you don’t take out the orange radio person as a priorityZ as they can
summon basically endless enemies.
Feels like a lot of situations I’m in things go to shit bad. And running isn’t always a good option. Not to mention how long enemies stay alert and hyper aware. So
what, do I just run super far away and wait like 10 minutes for everyone to chill the hell out? More often than not I literally just quit to the main menu and reload so I
can start from the beginning of the area. Then hope I can do better or that the game won’t fuck me in some stupid way.

Is there any information on how this fits in with the base game? Is it an entirely separate standalone scenario, new planet(s) integrated into the existing solar
system, some sort of epilogue/extension, or something entirely different?
Not watching this trailer because I know from experience it's best to go in blind. But goddamn if this DLC isn't a pleasant surprise. Outer Wilds is the last thing I ever
expected to get an expansion.
I'm seeing impressions from people of 8-10+ hours for it. Which is pretty freaking cool and i'm excited to see how it works.
There's a pretty harsh review of the DLC on Waypoint: https://www.vice.com/en/article/n7bxmz/outer-wilds-fails-to-capture-lightning-in-a-bottle-again-with-its-new-
dlc

Definitely validates some of the concerns I had for trying to add a DLC to this game. But Outer Wilds is still my favorite game, so I'm probably going to play this,
and will keep an eye out for other reviews.
Are they going to release a PS5 patch, so this runs at 60fps?
This DLC is amazing...when i first discovered the new location, i had the same goosebumps i had when first realizing what brittle hollow really was
Man I'm torn. Outer Wilds was one of my favorite games of all time so any more, even if it's not as good as the original, would be great. On the other hand I do not
like horror games. The fish stuff in regular Outer Wilds was almost too much for me.
Does anyone know how to actually start the dlc? I bought it and I’ve been playing for 30 minutes and idk how to start it
I’m in a very personally unique situation actually with this. I started Subnautica some 2 years ago and petered out about three quarters through. It was a game that
hit spots that no other game had, such in incredible experience.

So I wanted something like it. Outer wilds had been on my HD for over a year, curtesy of gamepass, but the time never seemed right. Then it was, and I loaded it up
(by that point I had to pay, which was fine by me) and instantly fell in love and got hooked. I finished it, about 3 weeks ago. I didn’t even realise there was DLC
coming.

It left such a deep impression on me and, looking to fill the void, I booted up Subnautica a couple weeks later. And I completed that on Sunday just past.

Now, I have Below Zero on gamepass AND EOTE dropped today.

I’m in a delightful quandary! Do I play the follow up to one of the best games I’ve ever played, or do I play the DLC of one of the best games I’ve ever played?!

It’s a nice choice to have :)
Really is a shame how shit this game runs on PS5 still. One of the best games I've ever played but it feels like a slideshow.
Any idea if I should I restart the game or continue a previous save?
What is this game similar to, please? I've heard a lot of good things about it, but I don't have a great track record with games in which I cannot shoot things.

I know. I'm not proud of it either.
I've been meaning to play this game should I buy this or just play thorough the base game and then grab this?
Trying not to look too much up for this dlc, but anyone know how long it takes to complete the dlc?
How well does this game run on the switch?
Might be time to try this game again. Picked it up at launch after all the good words people had to say about it but just could not get into it, wasn't what I wanted at
the time.
Yay! I can finally 100% the game again!


To talk about the trailer, I didn't anything spoiler worthy in my opinion. It looks like Environment we already seen, but it has been a while since I played
It's a big ask for people to re-familiarize themselves with Outer Wilds' systems. There are intricacies and mysteries that required complete mastery and knowledge
of Outer Wilds, and I can't imagine another dive would be as enjoyable as the first.
Oh fuck, oh fuck, oh shit, it comes out TODAY?

I love Outer Wilds from the bottom of my heart, I'm PSYCHED to play it!

I wonder if I just buy the DLC from the Microsoft Store I can play with my Game Pass version of the game!
I loved the actual gameplay, but the ending >!was unfulfilling for me. Since the universe is ending no matter what you do, it meant your actions were ultimately
pointless. I guess I'm not smart enough to understand all of the symbolism and mystery in the "afterlife", and could only take things that went on literally, which
wasn't that interesting to me. It left me feeling empty afterwards, and I haven't been able to push myself to go back and go after achievements. I'm not sure I'm
interested in trying out this DLC either.!<
Immediately bought it! Quit Apex mid game when I saw this post lol

Is it me or has the movement gotten faster? Like the ship is flying waaaay too fast...

Edit: HOLY SHIT THE GOOSEBUMPS ARE BACK AGAIN OMG
Am I screwed if I don't remember **Spoiler:** >!how to beat the game? I remember vague bits and pieces -- you go to the teleporter thingy, grab a ball, fly to the
anglerfish place, go down a very specific path, go to a big abandoned ship, put the ball in the thingy.!<
I get why they wouldn't include any information but I have zero idea how much content is in this DLC or if it's worth what they're charging. I would like to have some
idea of what type of content is it on any level from their marketing materials.
So do you need to play the main game first? Its hard to tell and I cant seem to find a straight answer...
This game was amazing and truly a different experience than anything I’ve played before. But I have zero clue how people figure it out without looking things up. I
looked up so much from early to mid game. Even how to complete the game. And then couldn’t figure out how to get through Dark Bramble in time without getting
eaten, so I never actually finished it
Hmmmm.

I suppose this means I need to go back and finish the main game. Mainly dropped it because I was at two major roadblocks that I couldn't really motivate myself to
get past. >!I can't for the life of me figure out how to get to the very core of Giant's Deep. I get that it has something to do with the jellyfish, but it feels like I've tried
everything to replicate what they're doing to pass through the layer. And I'm also a massive wimp when it comes to spooky games, and I'm not having a good time
exploring Dark Bramble. I think I've explored more or less everything else that doesn't involve these two locations...!<

>!But also... blegh, reviews seem to indicate that this DLC doubles down on the spooky aspect... and not necessarily the "cold, uncaring, and oppressive enormity
of the universe pulling at the seams of your very small and very flimsy spaceship" kind of spooky that I'm still terrified by but don't necessarily dislike.!<
I was getting into Outer Wilds but got pretty damn annoyed at one of the mechanics not functioning how it is supposed to as far as I know.

**Spoiler:** >!On Bitter Hollow when you are walking on the ceiling, I always fall down before reaching the first crystal pair. It doesn't matter which path I take, the
gravity fails and I fall into the black hole. I've watched videos where people just walk in a straight line from one crystal to the next and it works, but when I do it I fall. I
go immediately there before there is any breakage in the planet or anything.!<

Disappointing. When you have a game like this where you need to piece together the mechanics by trial and error, it is essential that everything be rock solid.
AFAIK, you will want to have finished the base game and figured out roughly what the eye is and can do. So an extension of the base game as it were, (hopefully)
answering some questions that one has accumulated about the universe.
This is the one game where I’d rather not know anything about the DLC setup alone. Any other game I’d want more info but with Outer Wilds the best experience is
a blind one as long as the reviews are favourable.
I would like to know as well. OW is one of my top 5 OAT but I can't imagine playing though it all again for one extra planet, as much as I'd like to explore it.
From what I gathered I'm fairly sure it's just an extra bit within the base game...which kind of sucks imo. I wanted an entirely new scenario
Having beaten the main game and now played a few hours of the DLC, it's more of an additional side-quel. You don't have to have beaten the main game, and you
can do the DLC at your leisure during your existing playthrough. From the short time I've played, it seems like it's going to resolve itself separately, as well, so for
someone like me who's beaten the main game, this will still feel like its own complete arc.

To start it, you just play the main game. There's something that you can read very early on that will trigger a clue for you to follow. Nowhere does it say "THIS IS
THE ECHOES OF THE EYE DLC," but if you follow the clue, you'll reach it. If you want a quick, virtually non-spoiler way to know how to specifically start the DLC:
>!there's a "New Exhibit" at the museum; read the panel next to it, and a new, "Unknown Signal" will be available to find/follow.!<
If it helps...the trailer shows absolutely nothing anyways lmao. It appears the devs feel the same lol
I have no experience with this game/series. Is it a series now? Is this just a dlc? I don't know because this trailer has absolutely nothing in it and I have no interest in
the game because the trailer is so empty.
The trailer is a waste of time. It shows a camp fire, and then says available now.
Damn, that's way longer than I expected! I'm going to pretend this is Outer Wilds 2 and enjoy myself.
It makes sense the more you read of it. I was not expecting a DLC that runs alongside the length of the main game. I assumed it would be additive to a first
playthrough and a nice little side-adventure for people coming back that answers unanswered questions in neat ways.

Still it sounds like they enjoyed the bits of it that captured the magic of the main game, so I'm excited to jump in again even if it doesn't hit the same.
This is the second person I've seen who loved the base game mention [an extremely frustrating mechanic]
(https://twitter.com/jasonschreier/status/1442883321827037184) later in the DLC.

Mobius Digital has been surprisingly excellent at patching and updating, so I might actually hold off on playing the DLC to see if they tone down whatever is causing
so much frustration.
To be fair, I find Vice to be often weirdly harsh on many games. I remember them being way down on Yakuza 7 for example
I beat this game recently and absolutely loved it. But I'm not really sure I want to jump into a DLC that just adds a new area, that review basically confirms my fears
about it.
If outer wilds is your favourite game, that would be pretty stupid not to play that DLC based on ONE review....
I mean, Outer Wilds is a 10/10 game, and Vice are... Vice.

It would take NerdCubed or somebody who loved the game as much as me to emerge and say this DLC sucked for me to doubt it.
I'm surprised you'd read reviews instead of just going in blind and playing it yourself?
What? Why keep an eye out for more reviews? I'm not even watching the launch trailer posted here, have no clue what the hook even is or how they could fit it into
the game.

Normally I'm all for making informed consumer purchases, but in this instance, even if it ends up sucking, I wanna experience purely for myself, not after absorbing
preconceived evaluations I can recognize while playing whether they would've originally bothered me or not.

It was only like 15 bucks, I bought this morning when I got the email lol. They've earned a blind faith our hase from me, if for no other reason than the original felt a
bit cheap for a game I'll be thinking about and reccomending for the rest of my life.
Is it really good? I keep getting this confused with Outer Worlds
Why do you read reviews if you have decided to play it? No way I'm going to skip this for whatever critics
I bought the game on PS5 and couldn't play at all. Somehow I convinved playstation support to give me a return. Patiently waiting to play at 60fps.
Had a similar reaction, along with "oh that is why they needed to rewrite the movement system."
There's a setting to lower the scary stuff.
I kind of feel like Outer Wilds was perfect on its own and I want to just remember it without going back.
I have the same problem... I love this game but I can't stand jumpscares, which makes me want to search where the jump scares happen, which spoils me and
defeats the purpose of the game
The museum has a exhibit labeled “new”
Go to the museum
In case the museum hint isn't enough...

>!The deep space satellite only picks up something strange when a certain condition is met. Check the radio tower pictures and see what you notice.!<
Really? That bad? I finished it on pc, but was considering getting it again + the dlc on ps5 for convenience
Recent patch improved things a bit, seems like a more consistent 30fps now. I guess it’s due to the Switch version coming soon but they really should have fixed it
earlier. Game is great but runs like shit on consoles, even on PS4 Pro / PS5.
Weird. It runs very well on Xbox One X
I played through the entire game on PS5 and never once noticed any problems.

Am I just stupid? Or maybe the problem was fixed? What was the issue?
Wow that is pretty inexcusable for a game like this. I've thought about getting a few times but on my ps5. Glad I didn't.
The devs recommended you continue a previous save.
I mean... Isn't every run essentially a new game? Lol the only thing that persists is your ship log
The only thing that persists is your ship log, there's no reason to restart.
It's not really similar ti anything. Maybe Obra Dinn in the sense that it's entirely deduction and exploration.
One of my top games ever, but if you want action, this ain't it.
Outer Wilds is rather unique but please imagine Return of the Obra Dinn meets Majora's Mask.
If you've played Subnautica, it's kind of like the story and exploration arts of Subnautica. None of the crafting or survival stuff or anything, but stuff like using PDAs
you find to try to piece together the story or identify points of interest and figuring out what your goals are. It also has a similar atmosphere of exploring an alien
world.

Besides that, as other have said, it's similar to Obra Dinn in the way the whole game is basically one giant puzzle where the gameplay is basically finding clues and
piecing together the story, although the atmosphere is very different and there's more emphasis on exploration.
I reckon this is the most important game of the last few years because it's not really like anything else.

The Witness but in a time loop I suppose. Not so much puzzles as just learning. You learn things and then use that knowledge until you finish the game.

It's genuinely fantastic. Go in blind, solve as much as you can on your own. I got it for like a fiver from Epic store which felt like theft.
I haven't played a game like Outer Wilds before or since.

It's like an adventure game, but instead of power-ups or new skills, you advance the game by learning. Each planet gives you knowledge about how to navigate a
different planet, and so on until you've uncovered all the mysteries of each planet. Slowly you piece together the mystery at the centre of the universe and... yeah.
It's a real thing of beauty. You kinda feel like a space archaeologist, which is the best thing.

Only issue with the game for some is that it's too freeform, it doesn't really hold your hand. If you get stuck, don't be afraid to go to a different planet and start a new
thread of investigation. And don't forget the computer on your ship exists, like some major reviewers did (*cough* Jeff Gerstmann *cough*)
I think the thing it's closest to is probably old school Myst but with a reset leash.
Its kerbal space program except you’re Tom cruise from edge of tomorrow
Most similar to Myst, except you fly a spaceship around instead of using linking books to get between worlds.
It's similar to a lot of games one would not think would sync up together.

The Witness, Myst, Subnautica, Obra Dinn, 12 Minutes. These are all valid comparisons despite seeming contradictory.

First and foremost it is 3D adventure game with logic puzzles and noted clues. Absolutely zero part of the game is obtaining new items and what you're given at the
start of the game is enough to complete the game in a single sitting. So the game's solution is 100% based on knowledge not milestones or classic gear/ability
climb.

Another key factor in the game is there is a level of survival as your space suit has an oxygen reserve that needs be replenished as well your ship that you use to
navigate the star system can be damaged and needs to be repaired. It also at times becomes your ad-hoc homebase.

And finally on top of this is a repeating loop where as you play you are given limited time to learn and absorb as much information as possible within the loop. The
"grand solution" that hits you is that a game that can take hours to scour all this information has a solution that can be done in 20 minutes. You always had the
ability to do this you merely lacked the knowledge which is a nice kind of feeling.
It has similarities to Deathloop, not in terms of core gameplay but in terms of structure.

People like to say it's similar to Obra Dinn, but it really isn't.
Unless you like reading - a lot - I wouldn't actually recommend Outer Wilds. I *love* exploration games, for reference, but I love games that show rather than tell.

There are parts of the Outer Wilds that definitely show more than tell.. but there are also hundreds of conversations you have to read off tablets and that just gets
*so* dull for me.

I guess it's a hot take, but when I want to read I read actual books! Seems lazy/a result of a low budget that 90% of the reveal and mystery and deduction in the
game takes place purely in a text based format.
It's like a metroidvania without ability gating. You can go anywhere from the beginning, but you are gated by your lack of knowledge. As you explore and learn more
about the world, you learn how to complete the game. Its also a rougelike in someways that I don't want to spoil.
I haven't played the DLC, but from what I read I think you should do the base game first then add the DLC after.

The base game is an exquisitely crafted and balanced mystery. The DLC seems to be, as you'd expect, lopsided in both time investment and content delivered: the
things you learn there aren't part of the base game mystery because that's already done, and the time you spend there is dramatically longer than any other location
in the base game because it's meant to be its own experience.
The review I read said they think it might be better if you just integrate it into the first playthrough. It’s explicitly designed to work either way though, so it’s totally up
to you
I heavily recommend playing through the base game first. It's so delightfully self-contained, I find it hard to imagine that the DLC makes that experience better.

If you enjoy the game, I think going back for the DLC makes the most sense.
Some reviewers have said between 8-10 hours or a little shorter depending on how well you can figure out the puzzles!
You’d be surprised how much you’ll remember from your first playthrough. I saw that they recommended having a completed ship log before starting the DLC and
since my saved data had been reset, I just spent the last weekend busting through the game to complete the ship log. I was able to collect every bit of knowledge in
just 2 or 3 nights of play since I already knew where to look. Obviously my second playthrough wasn’t as good as the first, but I actually still really enjoyed it just
because the game is so fucking clever and the atmosphere is unmatched.
Idk, I've got a goldfish's memory blasted with a decade of weed smoke and I played again a few months ago to try and get an achievement or two I missed and it
was like riding a bike. Piloted the ship just fine, only flew into the sun once by accident, still recalled the tragedies and ecstacy of the Nomai.

I think you'll be pleasantly surprised how much comes back to you once you're in the pilot seat again.

I’m not seeing anyone talk about this but this is my main concern about the DLC. I loved Outer Wilds and learning how the universe works and all it’s secrets, but I
don’t remember all of it and don’t really want to spend the time relearning it all just for this DLC. I’d hoped it would be a separate thing with its own unique rules but
if it’s tied to the original game and there’s an expectation that I’m already familiar with all its mechanics then I’m not sure I want to jump back in.
Yeah... I loved the Outer Wilds but jumping into again seems like I'm asking to be overwhelmed with a story layered on top of the original story.
Bleh, the only thing that requires a bit of experience/skill is manually landing on the sun station. Everything else you just need to remember the basics and try once
or twice.

Even just dark bramble, just gotta go carefuly the first time you go back
This is why I doubt I'll ever play the DLC, despite the base game being easily one of my favourite ever. :/
As I understand it, it's no longer on Game Pass so you'll have to buy both base game and dlc, or the new bundle (which is no cheaper). Base game isn't even on
sale on Xbox unlike Epic, Steam and PSN so bizarrely it'll be more expensive than for the other platforms.
Hmm, I interpreted the ending differently. >!While obviously you learn that there’s nothing you can do to save the universe, Hearthians, or other Nomai tribes, I
thought that you entering the eye and ‘conducting the orchestra’ of your friends is what caused the new universe to be born. By soling the puzzles you weren’t able
to save yourself or you world, but you could ensure that life continues for those who come after you (the bug people). Kinda the antithesis of the “well I’ll be dead so
why should I care about climate change argument.!<
>!The ending is meant to be bittersweet. You spend the whole game trying to prevent yours and your people's deaths, but in the end, it is inevitable. However, the
Eye is a living thing and when you interact with it, it brings you and your companions together to help it shape the next new wave of life in the universe. I think what
you're referring to as the afterlife is the part where you're inside the Eye, finding your friends for one last reunion. !<

I've probably missed some details, but that should be the gist of it. It's not terribly complex, but yeah, >!it's shown in a fairly abstract way. !<
That wasn't the impression I got with the ending.

>!The universe was ending no matter what from 'heat death', but your interaction with the eye allowed a new universe to be born. you basically saved the universe
and hit restart on everything. that doesn't seem pointless to me!<
I don’t think you’re wrong at all. However >!i think the idea is more about the journey and experience, and how we should savor those experiences because nothing
lasts forever. Its about enjoying the limited amount of time we have and forming bonds with the people that we share this journey with. !<
> Since the universe is ending no matter what you do, it meant your actions were ultimately pointless.

Yeah ... not unlike real life.
What did you see?

WHAT DID YOU SEE?!
No. It seems a bit separated from most of the main stuff.
Are you sure you are not screwing up somewhere? I never encountered a failure of mechanics in the game and that sounds very particular.
I had that issue for a while too — I know just the spot you're referring to.

I can tell you we were not thinking about it the right way, and there is more to the solution.
It’s you my guy, u cannot be too far from each crystal
But, "playing through it all again" makes little sense when it comes to this game. If you remember the game somewhat well then you're always about 5 minutes from
any point in the game.
Why would you have to play through it again?
From one of the review it's apparently as long as the base game
>From what I gathered I'm fairly sure it's just an extra bit within the base game...which kind of sucks imo. I wanted an entirely new scenario

I'm only a few hours in, but I don't think that's an accurate statement.

While the DLC is embedded in the base game, it's definitely a brand new scenario. There's new mechanics, a new area, and new lore. I can't say for sure, but it
seems self-contained so far.
So a sequel?
Having played a couple hours of it, it still feels like an entirely new scenario. It's DLC, so it doesn't seem like it's going to be as complex or lengthy as the original
game, of course, but it still feels like a completely fresh scenario, presenting itself pretty well separate from the main game. New mechanics (that build on the old)
and new lore/story.
It shows about exactly enough to make me excited
It's DLC for the base game. The devs are avoiding nearly any spoilers in the trailer. The base game is an adventure/mystery/puzzle game with a 100% focus on
exploring what you want at your own pace. It gives you a solar system with detailed planets to explore and figure out what's happening.
> I was not expecting a DLC that runs alongside the length of the main game.

I was wondering what the format would be, and this just cements that I'm not interested.

Outer Wilds is an unbelievable experience and one of, if not THE, best example of what sets gaming apart as a medium. It's one of my favourite games of all time.
But it's also one that you can never experience for the first time again. Having the DLC be woven into the main story as a side-adventure means playing it again will
feel like playing a broken adventure where half of it has already been spoiled.
Iirc didn't they patch the base game to make some part easier/add more hints to solve a specific puzzle?
I honestly wish they would’ve toned down the Dark Bramble difficulty in the original game. I visited the location in there 3 times and probably had 10+ unsuccessful
attempts each time, really frustrating and tedious.
i’m not surprised there were so many frustrating moments in the base game. i think i almost quit a few times
They were super hot on outer wilds tho. Reading it I think it's totally fair critism.
> I remember them being way down on Yakuza 7 for example

The Lord and Saviour Ichiban doesn't approve.
[removed]
.. why? It being a separate area seems the best case scenario.
I agree. That’s like not playing Super Mario 3 because you heard there’s a water
level.
the Waypoint crew loved Outer Wilds, especially the site's editor-in-chief at the time Austin Walker, who said it was his game of the year and one of his favorites
ever
This DLC sucked.

Only kidding, I've not played it yet. However, I probably won't. I'm just not interested in a horror themed bolt-on to a game that was already perfect. Interesting to
see people's reactions to it though!
Because people don't have all the money and time in the world so need reviews to let them know if they'll like it?
For one thing, there’s a vast difference between a DLC that works after you’ve beaten the game and a DLC that’s meant to be played alongside the entire game.
Knowing if it’s one or the other drastically changes how you even try to play the DLC, let alone whether one wants that kind of experience. This distinction matters
for Outer Wilds also due to the structure of the puzzles and most of the game.
I haven't played this DLC, but yes the base Outer Wilds is very good. I went into it completely blind and it's probably my favorite gaming experience in the past 5
years.
It's really good. If you're into exploration games, you won't find a better one.
It's excellent, and hard to compare to other game types. It's one of a kind, there really is nothing like it. It's also impossible to describe accurately without giving
away a minor early game spoiler.

Essentially, you're an explorer armed with a little space ship and an early-game objective of just exploring your galaxy. You quickly go from "hm, let's fly over there,
that looks like a cool planet" to "ok, there are ruins of an ancient civilization all over the place that came to our solar system for some reason."

The puzzles, discoveries, and mechanics of time and space intertwine and lead your character to solving an existential, species-threatening question that the earlier
civilization failed to answer themselves. It's a beautiful story wrapped in a very unique gameplay loop.

It was a pure joy to play through start to finish, and it does almost zero hand-holding. Just... go and figure shit out. Most players, like me, had to consult a guide at
least once to figure out how to advance past some parts, but the clues are all there right in front of you.
I had decided to play Cyberpunk and I'm glad I read reviews first. You never know when a company you like is going to turn around and publish a buggy or unfun
sequel.
Did you use your one time return on that game?
I've done the exact same thing today, have it on pc but thought I'd double dip to support a great dev just to find out the PS5 version runs terribly and is known to by
the devs AND instead of fixing it they just tell you not to play it, bizarre really.

https://mobile.twitter.com/Mobius_Games/status/1366456025121837058

Really expected better, I'm not asking for an upgrade, just for playing it to not have known input lag issues.
According to reviews that still leaves in scripted jumpscares.
If it says "coming soon" then the DLC didn't load correctly. That's what happened to me and I didn't realize for an hour.
It still says "Coming soon" by the exhibition for me, do you have to make any progress in the game for it to change or is my update busted? Already beaten the
whole game before but on epic instead of steam.
It’s mad jarring trying to go from 40 hours in Deathloop to trying out Outer Wilds again. It’s very odd how crap it runs.
Hell I don’t remember any problems on my launch xbone
I played it on xbox through gamepass, and it was pretty awful on the series x. Needs a next gen patch and those framerates bumped to 60.
Great, thanks for that.
I've tried to play it on 3 separate times now and I'm having a really hard time making progress with it. really struggling with micro-gravity controls and having to re-fly
to locations over and over (is there fast travel at some point?) The two times I've been able to land the ship somewhere, the micro-gravity made it really difficult for
me to do anything.

What planet should I be flying to first? I feel like maybe I'm just picking the wrong destination for early-game exploration.
gamers need to stop making Outer Wilds comparisons to The Witness. its closer to Kamidori Alchemy and Boku No Pico Academia.
People have also said it's like a rogue-like, but instead of slowly getting stronger with new weapons and skills, you slowly get stronger with knowledge
Thanks. Somebody also compared it to Subnautica. Those are both objectively great games that weren't for me. So I think I'll pass.
Myst is always what I compare it to. Plays very differently of course but the puzzles and lore/story are done in similar ways.
This is the best analogy I have seen so far, congrats
I feel like an untrained Jeb every time I try Outer Wilds. I can’t comfortable with the controls at all. Makes me sad.
Second the idea that The Witness is NOT a valid comparison. I love The Witness and hated Myst, and the Outer Wilds - which I picked up based on a Witness-
based recommendation and gone in blind as recommended to avoid spoilers - has completely failed to engage me at all and feels a lot more like Myst.

It doesn't come near to The Witness in any way for me. I find it annoying when I can't get somewhere or finish something and I have to delay that to a future
iteration. Or, I look in my ship's log and find out there was "more to discover" in a location that I thought I was done with, so I have to go back again. Or, I'm not sure
if I have to carry this one item to a different location where I've used similar items before, or if I'm missing somewhere local to use it.

I also really hate when a game crashes and I lose a lot of progression and have to replay a lot of content, and the game is basically designed around this feeling,
and The Witness absolutely is not.

So please, stop saying it is anything like The Witness, because it's not remotely the same in feeling or gameplay, even though both are founded upon "knowledge-
based" progression.
The witness is a great game but a terrible comparison
It’s similar to Obra Dinn in that I boot the game, have no flying fuck what is going on, walk/fly around for a while, solve a couple puzzles, get stuck, turn it off, and
wonder why everyone likes it so much
Thanks. I don't love reading that much. This was a problem for me with the Path of Exile games. So much verbiage.
Oh perfect! Thank you very much :)
The controls are hardly the issue here. It's the game knowledge that will make things difficult. There's a certain layer of finesse required to nail the "perfect" cycle,
and being familiar with the >!quantum moon and teleportation systems!< and everything they entail.
I said this elsewhere, but its not the skill thats the issue, its the game knowledge.
Damn! I wonder if having an older save file impacts in any way, because if that isn't the case, I'd rather switch platforms to get the discount.
Real life is full of things that don't translate well into video games.
Cool, I'll check it out again. The odd thing is I saw a video of an earlier build where someone was taking the same route as me and it seemed to work.
Yeah, I plan on waiting a sufficient time so I only vaguely remember exactly what to do, and I'll just play it as close to I did as the first time again.

Some DLC works that way.
so 20 minutes?
Well sure, but plenty of games have DLC which put you into a completely different scenario
All I needed were the words "Outer Wilds DLC"
That was the title for me. :)
It made me nervous because it seems pretty >!spooky!<.
Like a trailer should!
I think you misinterpreted the above. Its not woven into the main story at all. Imagine there's a menu that says: would you like to play 'Outer Wilds' or 'Echoes of the
Eye', but instead of a menu both are in the same solar system
"it's also one that you can never experience for the first time again"

Never say never! All you need is a memory as bad as mine, and like 5 or so years. Cant wait to play it again once im done forgetting.
Yeah they added some extra clues.
I found that once you knew where to go, it was pretty easy to pick the right line and just coast past them - the key was to try and enter with some momentum so that
you don't need to thrust while floating past them, and after you get enough distance you can go full speed and outrun them.
A controller really helped. You can thrust very slightly.
It kinda asks you to trust in momentum. Thats the entire meme.
Uh it seems like you brute forces Dark Bramble. There's nothing difficult about it if you know how to do it.
That's the spot i got fed up with the game!
There was a mod in nexusmods that removed all anglerfish, that's the only way I could finish the game.
I *did* quit. Like I knew everything I needed to do to end it, but it involved two mechanics that I couldn't do reliably (entering the ash twin project and getting past the
anglerfish). So I got too frustrated and never came back to it. Which is a shame because apart from those annoying moments (there were others, but not critical to
finishing the game) I really enjoyed the game.
[removed]
Okay, I'm going to be honest, I just knew Waypoint as 'Vice' and that was it.

I remember Austin from his Giant Bomb days, I'll go check out his review. Thanks!

EDIT: This review isn't even by Austin, he isn't at Waypoint anymore, boo.
But the way OW works, you can just beeline right to the new stuff on your existing save.

EDIT: Can confirm, just did it in my game (completed save I loaded up). Don't want to spoil anything but you can start this immediately, no need to replay anything.
Man, I can play certain games like Subnautica or Prey and be mostly fine, but I get this overwhelming fear of the unknown with Outer Wilds and ended up not being
able to continue. I should really pick it up again.
Ya, I used my one time refund
> We don't recommend playing the game for PS5 since it has not been optimized for it **yet.**

The way they worded that, it sounds like they are working on a PS5 patch.
I passed the game last year and I'm not remembering any scripted jump-scares… Can you remind me what it was (w/ spoiler tags, etc)?
that kinda makes me pass on this one then. I despise jumpscares and I was hesitant to return to the game. it was neatly tied up and perfect as it was.
I think that means the DLC didn't install or load properly
It's not odd when you understand why. Despite the visuals, the game is an incredibly ambitious construction, actually simulating the entire "universe" each loop. So
while they don't need to fully render, for example, the solar twins, they do need to track where the sand is at (at minimum).

Things get more demanding when you're away from your ship, because they can't just turn off collision or else it would float into space. Things get even *more*
demanding when you fire out a probe, necessitating a full rendering of whatever space it may be in in order to provide pictures.

In one doc, I think it's noclip, they describe how there used to be an achievement for having your player character, spaceship, and probe all in different areas, but
Annapurna made them take it out because it would crash the game for people without good enough hardware.
weird, it ran great for me when it came out (midrange PC at the time).
I played it on a refurb regular xbox and it ran really poorly. Maybe you are just used to low and varying fps.
There is no wrong order for exploration. Nothing physically changes about the game, you just acquire information. It's not like you will upgrade your movement tech.
I was personally a bit sad how easy I found the navigation, but if you need help the ship has an autopilot button that makes landing on most places really easy!
Landing is pretty simple. There's a button to switch to a landing view which should help you touch down at a speed still compatible with life. The autopilot should be
able to take you to targets, but watch out for the sun because it doesn't take that into account. I played with a controller, and didn't have too much trouble that way.

Really, you'd need to look at the computer on the ship. It tells you where you've been and what you've seen, and also lets you know if there's more to discover
around there. There's a few big mechanics, and the secret to how they work along with the opportunities to use them, are scattered around the planets.

There *is* some fast travel at certain points, but it's less useful than you'd think since it leaves the spacecraft behind. Besides, once you're familiar with where
things are you can get pretty much anywhere inside the first two minutes.

In terms of starting points, I guess any buildings and caves you might find if you can get into them. Timber Hearth (your starting planet) and Giant's Deep (the big
water filled gas giant) are probably a good place to start, but really explore as much as you can. It's all looped, so you can just spend time watching the planets up
close and see if they do anything interesting. If it looks interesting, it probably does something.
Be sure to check your ship's bullet board on the back wall. It retains all information you've hence found in all locations, points out where there may be more clues
and has bridges to other areas.

I would say go to as many places as possible and anywhere you want, dedicate a loop to a single location and a different one each time (So don't stress it if you
'crash' on a planet). You'll pick up more clues rather than just trying to grind out a single location. It's not a linear quest (until the end of course) and you don't need
100% of the information just enough for you to piece together an idea of things.
The Moon (Attlerock) is a great place to start for super early exploration. For the actual planets, Brittle Hollow and Ember Twin have pretty "normal" gravity and
have a ton of things to explore.

I found that I ended up getting pretty comfortable with the jetpack and ship after just playing for a while. If you're bored or frustrated, though, you don't have to force
anything! Just cuz internet strangers love a game doesn't mean you have to.
The only part that requires more than a minute of careful fly time is in the endgame sequence. Just about everywhere else can be reached by jumping into your
ship and hitting autopilot. That said, the shortcuts have to be discovered…

I think the water planet is the most forgiving. You’ll have to get clues from other planets to find out all its secrets…but it’s the planet least likely to suddenly kill you
during exploration (that said, the 2x gravity is pretty annoying)

The home planet also has several mysteries to uncover, though ones that aren’t as interesting to the overall plot
> the micro-gravity made it really difficult for me to do anything.

Just in case you don't realise (I made this mistake at first because it's not needed in the tutorial area) there's a booster button you can hold down when using the
jetpack which gives you a more powerful flight, on some of the planets it's necessary to use this otherwise your jetpack won't be strong enough to fight the gravity.
Even if you're in a zero G area I'd still recommend using the booster to build up speed and then just using the "normal" setting to adjust yourself once you're in
motion.
Are you playing on a controller? The flying controls are tricky initially but you shouldn't have only been able to land the ship twice.
Yes, I felt a comparison to a game people might have heard of would be rather more useful.

Ghost Trick is also kind of similar but kind of not. It takes a lot of ingredients from other places and combines time into a dish I'd not seen before.
I hated The Witness, Outer Wilds is nothing like it really.
It's a game based on exploration where "progress" is based on you, the player, gaining knowledge. The solar system you are in is like a big clockwork machine, and
you learn how the different pieces are moving while you also unwind (haha! pun) the story going on there. The exploration as a means to find more story is probably
the only real overlap it has with Subnautica or Myst.
I agree that they're nothing alike, but from the opposite direction. I adore Outer Wilds and played The Witness because of all the people comparing the two, and I
ended up detesting The Witness. I couldn't believe how literally The Witness was a puzzle game, as in 90% of the game is doing line tracing puzzles. All I wanted to
do was explore the world and experience the mystery of the island, but everywhere I went all there was to do was endless screens with tracing puzzles. Whereas in
Outer Wilds nothing ever took me out of the experience of exploring that world, and all the puzzles were completely integrated into the game's base mechanics
rather than being a semi separate experience.

I persevered with The Witness in the hope that there would be something that would happen at the end that would allow me to see the game from a new
perspective, but instead I found the ending to be so pretentious that I ended up disliking the game more. Which is a stark contrast to Outer Wild's ending which is
probably the most meaningful video game ending I ever experienced, it hit me on an emotional level and caused me to re-evaluate the way that I think about life.

I'm not saying this to start an argument or anything, just agreeing that The Witness and Outer Wilds are similar in concept, but are polar opposites in execution, and
liking one game isn't a guarantee that you'll like the other.

Now we just need someone to explain why they love both games, then someone to explain why they hate both games, and we'll have all parts of the venn diagram.
I mean no offense but you do kind of validate the comparison at the end.

It's not a 1:1 comparison of course (none of the items cited are) and whether one has a strong revulsion to the comparison being made is undermined with the
admission that the comparison can be made.

This is not to say that it's "just like it" only that the idea of a knowledge based progression is a comparison and valid one at that and one that holds. Again I am not
saying it's "so just like it" only that the comparison holds.

For example a comparisons can be made on a shared concepts rather than direct mechanics. Thief to Hitman, Metroid Prime to Jedi Fallen Order, Gothic to
Morrowind, etc.

If you'd like we can call them Oblique Comparisons.
Eh, most of the comparisons fall apart equally as poorly with the exception of Myst in my opinion.

I'd say there are still things people latch onto that are seemingly more nebulous level like 'mood' and 'theme' that aren't necessarily invalid comparisons.
The DLC doesn't need you to remember any of that. Is it's own separate zone that doesn't interact with any of the other planets. At least 4hs in, it seems to be
entirely self-contained once you reach it.

To reach it for the first time you'll have to at least remember how to fly your ship and remember that you have the thing-a-ma-jig for finding/hearing farwaway
signals. And once you find it for the first time you can have your ship's console mark it on your HUD and get to it in about a minute.
They've been (presumably intentionally) vague on this but it sounds like it's accessible either way.

[https://twitter.com/Mobius\_Games/status/1440736656156332049](https://twitter.com/Mobius_Games/status/1440736656156332049)

"we recommend that you use a previous save file, but it’s not essential to play"

other exchanges in the replies:

"Could you be more specific?" - "Nope (can't be more specific)"

"I think I have deleted my saves, can I enjoy correctly the DLC if I start over the game again??" - "You should be able to, the DLC is accessible from any point in
your travels"
The soul crushing ennui of dying and the heat death of the universe are beautifully translated in Outer Wilds.

Checkmate.
I think I know exactly the video you're talking about since I got stuck there too and watched that video. Turns out that particular part of the game was changed due
to a patch so the video was outdated.
Do you know how this game works? That makes no sense
It took me 18hrs, which is about the norm. I have no idea how someone would beat this game in 20 minutes, although I'm sure it's possible, they'd be skipping 99%
of the content.

https://howlongtobeat.com/game?id=57527
When you think about how compact the entirety of outer wilds is, a different scenario for its DLC would be like...one planet. I dont think its fair to expect something
like that from DLC in a game like this.
Any independent games with a team of the size that made OW?

From all accounts (thinking in particular of [the No Clip doc](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LbY0mBXKKT0)), the game was a mammoth endeavour for the
studio, and it's essentially a giant puzzle box. With all that in mind, I just don't think a new scenario is realistic for this type of release/team/etc.
i got surprised by aeris dying in like, 2018. knew it was gonna happen, but completely forgot the story circumstances/timing around it.
I succeeded on my first try through Dark Bramble and then failed half a dozen times in a row. I would've definitely liked it to be easier.
Isn’t it just to accelerate very gently and slightly so you don’t wake them up?
I don't blame you. That ending was effing stupid and I feel the same way
[removed]
Yeah, he officially fully left the site a week or two ago. He's going to be doing something in game development, but he hasn't said what yet.
The review for the original game, not the DLC, was written by Austin Walker. Also this reviewer straight up mentions that, quotes him, and links the review in the first
3 paragraphs

"“Outer Wilds has stolen every night (and a couple of days) from me for the last week, and I’m thrilled that it has,” wrote Austin Walker in his review for Waypoint. “I
don’t know that I’ve ever played anything like it, and I don’t know when I’ll get to again.”"

But also, this reviewer mentions that the original game as a masterclass like throughout the entire review.
Ouch. That might sting if they offer a free or path upgrade
No they aren't they say as much in the replies
I am assuming they mean for the new DLC, as there are no (scripted) jump scares in the base Outer Wilds game
I do get that, and its incredibly impressive and part of what makes this such an absolutely amazing testament to game design. And I fully understood why when I
was playing it through on my PS4 Pro...but were talking PS5 now. Shit has the specs better than my PC and my PC plays this game muuuuch better than my
console.
No its just poorly optimized under the hood. Many games do FAR more in the background than this game and run far better.
Hm, could be. Don't get me wrong, there were certainly variances in Framerate (especially when you got crazy with the probe), but I definitely don't ever remember
it being a 'slideshow'
I just meant - the best location to get me hooked. The place I landed on twice (I've played the game maybe 3 hours max) Dark Bramble I think it's called, seems
empty and difficult to explore due to microgravity.

Spending the time to get there without hitting the sun or whatever and then feeling like there's really nothing there isn't the best early-game experience for me (esp
considering how cool the base camp planet is) So I'm wondering if there's a better early-game location to go explore.
Shit, I forgot I went to Giant's Deep first but couldn't figure out what to do (and then I died?)

It might just not be the game for me. I dunno how to get into something if it's not catching my interest right away.
thanks!!
So I’ll take a stab at why I love both games and why people say they’re similar: it’s because both games empower the player via their own internal knowledge. In
both The Witness and Outer Wilds, within 5 minutes of booting up the game for the first time you can be staring at a puzzle or a mystery that you don’t comprehend.
Later on, though, when you come back to it, you will have gained enough context to understand what you’re looking at. Your in-game character isn’t empowered by
any in-game powerup or item, but by you, the player’s, increased understanding. It’s one of the reasons both games have symbol languages that at first are
completely meaningless to you, and only with added context do you start reading them as “oh, this means these squares must be separate” or “oh, this is talking
about Giant’s Deep”. They’re games about assigning meaning and drawing connections.
Well said, and very interesting to come at this from the other perspective.

Likewise, I've gotten value from The Witness in how the lessons its teaches are applicable to every day critical thinking and problem solving.

I recognized the pretentious of the game but I'm not put off by it, because I think those things are there to encourage you to think as much or as little as you want
about them, which is what I think a lot of philosophy is about - it's not always practical, but sometimes it is nice to think about thinking. And this is coming from a guy
who does not read philosophy for fun either. The right amount of philosophy for me is watching The Good Place. :-D

However, as I said, I didn't find myself disliking Outer Wilds because I expected it to be like The Witness. I am disliking it because I am personally bothered by the
repetition implied by the gameplay loop. And, it's hard to explain why. I have no problems playing Dead Cells or Deep Rock Galactic over and over. I've re-read
some of my favorite books 5 or more times. But something about Outer Wilds hits that same "annoyance" spot as having a computer crash and you lose some
unsaved draft work, and it just feels PAINFUL to slog through and have to do it again. I get this is a personal issue which is why I haven't said that Outer Wilds is a
bad game; I'm sure it's not. But, I think it might be a bad game *for me*. I still haven't given up on it but I'm really having to force myself to want to start it up again,
especially after a few months away (where I've no doubt forgotten a lot)
The games will always be "comparable", so that's not really a great point.

They are both first-person games as well. That's a valid comparison too, but not a particularly relevant one when saying that one game is "like" another.

In this case, I'm saying that it is also not a useful comparison to say they are both "puzzle" games or both "knowledge-based" progression. While true, focusing only
on those similarities while ignoring all of the many differences is not useful.

Also, the flavor, for lack of a better word, of the knowledge-based progression between the two games is very different. So yes, the term applies and the
comparison can be made, but it's not an illustrative comparison because the differences, which are being ignored, are significant.
I would say subnautica mostly fits. It's just a puzzle exploration with emphasis on exploration whereas subnautica is base building/survival exploration. "if you take
the base building/crafting out of subnautica and throw it in outer space" you get a decent fit for outer wilds
How scary is it?
They aren't translated well, and even if they were, they make for a poor and unsatisfactory ending. "Nothing you did matters, but look how artistic the ending is!"
I know how the game works, but I haven't played the DLC, so I don't know how the DLC works. There was speculation before the DLC released that it would >!take
place in the new universe, for example!<
It's a joke. The time loop is about 20 minutes so theoretically that's the minimum amount of time you'd need to beat it.
Is Unknown Worlds much bigger or smaller than Mobius Digital? Because that's basically what Subnautica Below Zero is. (I looked this up and it looks like
Unknown Worlds has 22 employees and Mobius Digital has 13. Also I didn't know Masi Oka was involved with Mobius, so that's cool.)
Or you can come in hot and rely on momentum.
Def an unpopular opinion round these parts, but it's one I share with you.
[removed]
Well there is one that's more or less scripted very very close to the end of the game
Yeah that's a bit odd. Outer Wilds ran fine on my ancient dusty 970 rig, and since upgrading it runs exactly as good as it did before. It's an impressive simulation,
but I wouldn't have expected either playstation to struggle with it.
Dark Bramble is a rough first planet. Almost anywhere else, except maybe the comet, would give you an easier time to start.

There is actually quite a lot to explore on the home planet, with more normal gravity. The moon also has a bit to explore, with lower gravity but a more normal
shape. Giant's Deep, the big planet you wake up looking at, is also a decent starting place.

There are also two places in the starting area to help you get used to the controls: a small remote controlled version of the ship, and some zero-G caves you fly
around in your space suit. I would also recommend using a controller, over a keyboard, if you are on PC and that's an option for you.
Ouch, Dark Bramble might be the worst starting planet as there's nothing "obvious" there; you'll make more progress once you've learned more about the story and
your gear.
Christ, there we go. Don't start with Dark Bramble (honestly, the game needs a DON'T START WITH DARK BRAMBLE disclaimer).

Literally every other planet is more hospitable.
I recommend brittle hollow as a starting planet.
The journal typically always gives you a good sense of where to go exploring next
Start anywhere but Dark Bramble. The twins are also a bit harder than the others, but still normal and cool enough for a first go.
> but couldn't figure out what to do

This might possibly be your issue. There's not one thing that you're "supposed" to do on each planet. Rather, you should just explore and see what things catch
your interest. You went to Giant's Deep, did you see the stuff in orbit around it? Did you try getting close and seeing if there was anything you could do there? What
about the planet itself, did you try landing on it? Did you see any islands? Any tornados? What happens if you (intentionally) go into a tornado?

It's a very exploration-centric game, you have to be in the mindset of "Oh, I haven't seen that before, let's go check it out," rather than "What's the next thing I have
to do to make progress?"
Yeah, you will probably die a lot when exploring. Some bits are dangerous.

I do recommend getting used to the ship if that's putting you off exploring. It took me a little while to get into as well. It didn't feel like I was really getting anywhere.
Until it did. And then I was hooked until the end.

It's exceptionally well designed. Very few things are without purpose.
That'd be a pretty subjective answer, but I'd say less scary than Dark Bramble. Plus I feel it's important to highlight that it has way more awesome fun places to
explore, the scary parts being a small sub-section.
For me very. I avoid horror games and this DLC was probably the scariest game I played. There are some long sections of high tension, and the offered "reduce
frights" option does not fix them. I quit midway and I don't think I'll continue if there isn't some real fix.
If that was your take-away, that's your right to think. But it's a shallow read of the game and not at all what the ending was about.
If you wanna get philosophical though nothing you do in real life matters either, so why do you get up in the morning?

My takeaway from Outer Wilds was absolutely that it's about the journey, not the destination, among other things.
> Nothing you did matters

Except it does **Spoiler:** >!the stuff you find on the quantum planet heavily implies that if no one finds the eye of the universe then no new universe will come to
be. Yes you die in the ending and so does everyone else but you also ensure that new life will be born in the future, if you don't go the eye then when you all die
nothing will ever be born to replace it, all life will become extinct.!<
What would you have to play trough again to get to the DLC? If you really want you can finish the game again in 5 minutes.
Based on Google, Mobius looks to be 13 people [according to their website](https://www.mobiusdigitalgames.com/team.html). I'm seeing [conflicting reports]
(https://www.google.com/search?
q=unknown+worlds+entertainment+employees&oq=Unknown+Worlds+Entertainment+empl&aqs=chrome.0.0i512j69i57j0i390.3319j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-
8) on Unknown Worlds, some sources say around 22, some say around 173. Regardless, Below Zero is a [sequel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=yX5Lkk0iPU0), which is exactly my point.
Different kind of puzzle box. Subnautica is a mostly-static world with hints and clues scattered throughout to guide you through exploration. Outer Wilds is a
miniature solar system, with multiple planets that are all constantly moving and changing over the course of the 22 minute loop. Of course, in other ways it's
simpler: no enemies, so no AI required. And the only NPCs are the guys in the starting area and the few lone astronauts, so the effort there had to be miniscule
compared to Subnautica.
Subnautica is a great game, but in terms of technical complexity, it seems lower than Outer Wilds. I'd say Brittle Hollow alone is probably more ambitious than
Subnautica. What's good about Subnautica is mostly that it's really well designed.
When I played I thought it was purely sound and I did the entire thing outside of my ship in just my suit. It was TERRIFYING
[removed]
I think I know what you're referring to - is it related to bones? That scared the shit out of me for a second.
It’s simply because they haven’t updated the game to take advantage of the PS5’s enhanced performance. All there is to it. It runs the exact same on PS5 as it
does on PS4 Pro.

Since the release of the new consoles, players have become hyper-aware of framerate. & for some reason, this particular game... it’s rough. Even compared to
some other 30fps games I have played recently.
Thanks. I explored the base planet, at least base camp (and I really enjoyed it). Is there more than just base camp?

I'll go back to Giant's Deep. It felt unexplorable when I first went there due to the water, and then I think I died (because I didn't put my suit on?) I can't remember
Thanks.

it seemed to be the one that the game wanted me to go to as when I got on my ship and launched it seemed like that one's orbit seemed the closest in line with my
trajectory.
I don't remember Giant's Deep too much. Everything about it made me think I wasn't supposed to go there yet. I know I died on it but I can't remember why
(perhaps not putting my space suit on.) Is it possible to slam into a planet and die on impact? I might have done that on Giant's Deep, too.

I'll go back and check it again. Thanks.
It was originally intended to be a "standalone DLC" or expansion. It kinda grew in scope a lot over the course of development, and got rebooted a couple times too.
https://www.mobygames.com/game/windows/subnautica-below-zero/credits

"core" team appears to be at least 42 people for below zero.
What part are you talking about? The fish skeleton is the only bones I remember and they were done more as a puzzle if I remember correctly.
There’s at least 3 interesting locations on the home planet that are best reachable by launching your ship and circling the planet. One of the locations has an easy
to reveal clue that will help with exploring Dark Bramble
There are other places on the home planet besides the little town / camp you spawn in. There's the part that teaches you how to use the probe / camera, and will
give you clues on other places there. You can also just fly around it to see other stuff.

As a heads up, there isn't really any planet where you will learn / know everything you need from just that planet. If you seem to be at a dead end, try checking out a
new planet. The computer in your spaceship will also keep track of what you have learned, and clues you can pursue elsewhere.

Everyone dies at least once from forgetting to put on a space suite =). The other right of passage is falling into the sun.
The home planet does have some other stuff.

I died in Giant's Deep because I didn't put my suit on either, haha. Every planet besides the home planet requires a spacesuit when you're not in an area with plants
for oxygen. Giant's Deep is a little unique in that there are lots of areas with plants, so it's easy to wander off without your suit on and die without knowing why.
Definitely try going to different planets.
I can kinda see what you mean, but it's also the farthest away. Regardless, the key to this game is to be comfortable switching it up every loop and going
somewhere else, unless you have a specific goal in mind.
The only thing anyone should learn from the Dark Bramble that early on is that you're in way over your head. It'll all make sense once you explore the rest of the
galaxy and figure out how to navigate through it.
It's definitely possible to slam into something and die, lol. There's nowhere that you're not "supposed" to go, but if you look around somewhere and don't find
anything that seems immediately interesting, it's totally expected and encouraged to just go somewhere else. Other people have already mentioned Timber Hearth
(your home planet) and Brittle Hollow (the blue planet with a lava moon) as places that you might find more immediate satisfaction. But there are interesting places
on Giant's Deep you should be able to find and explore even as a beginner.

Always wear your space suit! There are very few places with breathable air. Even experienced players forget the suit sometimes.
I died a lot. You do something stupid, die then don't do that again if you can.
If only they'd figured out a way to make it as good as the original. I liked Below Zero, but I got to the end and my main reaction was "... that's it?"

> Early access is available on October 6-7, 2021 for all players who pre-order the game or are current EA Play members.

Does this mean Game Pass members get early access?
Will this be available on PS4?
Finally, I'm very excited to give 2042 a go, hopefully it doesn't disappoint. But my God these PC specs are wild (at least for the beta).

>Minimum:
>
>CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 3600 / Intel i5 6600K
>
>Memory: 8GB
>
>Video Memory: 4GB
>
>GPU: GTX 1050 Ti / RX 560

&#x200B;

>Recommended:
>
>CPU: Ryzen 7 2700X / Intel i7 4790
>
>Memory: 16GB
>
>Video Memory: 8GB
>
>GPU: RTX 3060 / RX 6600 XT
This BF has huge potential. Ive been playing BF games since forever and i think this could be the best BF game if they dont ruin it somehow. So far, it looks
amazing, tons of content, tons of quality of life features, features overall, monthly updates, interesting modes etc... I really really hope they dont ruin it because the
potential is there
Wow, I was not expecting them to announce this today. With their radio silence for almost a month since the first delay, I was under the impression that this game
wasn't ready for release anytime soon and some major crunch was going on.

...of course, that could still be the case, judging by how the beta goes. It'll be a rough idea however if there's assets missing, netmapping issues, and other issues, it
may give us a glimpse as to why DICE/EA suddenly stopped talking about this game since it's first few trailer drops.
Looks like the tornado is a feature on multiple maps? That's a shame. Was hoping for perhaps each map having its own major weather effect or levelution; like
Paracel Storm's storm, Lumphini Garden's mud slide, or Operation Whiteout's blizzard.
If DICE can release a feature complete battlefield (plethora of guns/unlocks, etc.) I think it will be the big winner this holiday season.

The shift to a more traditional sandbox play space (contrasted with BFV which felt like Big CoD on a lot of maps) and 128 players is a winning strategy IMO.

Vanguard is shaping up to be a run of the mill C tier CoD entry, Infinite has been less than impressive during the play tests I’ve been in, and the lack of forge mode
and campaign co op will no doubt curb enthusiasm.

DICE is in control of their own destiny here. I believe they’ve learned from the mistakes of BFV, but I’m not sold on whether or not they have the ability to correct
them
Has their been any word on whether the console versions will support keyboard and mouse now that we have crossplay?
Have Dice released a uncut gameplay video yet?

The trailers are cut so quick that I don't really have an idea of how it actually plays. The only thing I've seen was a really low quality leaked video that looked kinda
rough, and I don't want to judge the game off that.
Can anybody confirm that this will have DLSS? If so, I have to imagine that 20 series Nvidia cards should be able to hang in alright, yeah?
Hopefully these levelution items, like the tornadoes or rocket, don't get old quickly. Are they random and actually cause damage to the map?
Why is the recommended a i7 4790? Thats my old 4 core cpu, that would be awful.
Open beta is only 1 day pretty much, seems short no? Do we know when pre order gets access?
let's hope you can actually login to matches this time...during 4 hrs of alpha i think i was in a total of 2 matches...
I'm confused. Open beta Oct 8-9th, pre-order for early access. Does that mean early access to the open beta or you have to pre order for any kind of access to the
open beta. Cause that's not a fucking open beta, that's called a closed beta.
[deleted]
I so wish they still had playable demos of games.

I still remember the awe I felt when I installed a multiplayer demo for this new unknown game called "Battlefield 1942" back in the day. It was the thing that
persuaded me to get my first broadband connection... and obviously I bought the game too.

But yeah, there's no way I'm pre-ordering a game just to play the beta to see if I'll like it (or if it'll run okay on my PC).

\#BoomerProblems
Ok I noticed this trend in the new Star Wars movies, and its all over games now... why have we collectively decided to change the sound explosions make?

I noticed it in Battlefront 2, I noticed it in the new Halo beta, it's in this trailer too. I don't know how to quite describe it beyond ... explosions seem to sound more like
pops now? There's like a sudden pop followed by compressed distortion and that's it
Is it really an "open" beta if you need to pre-order or pay a sub in order to get access to it? >;/
[deleted]
My experience as of 10 minutes ago: I seen the link, clicked it, got a bit hyped, went to steam to purchase it. I checked the page and see the price tag. 60 bucks.
Par for the course for a triple A. But then i seen the "gold" and "Ultimate" edition. 90 bucks and 110 bucks. What. the. fuck. Apparantly buying the game for 90
bucks gets you "early access to unlock the game". Completely put me off buying it, and i may just wait for the release date. Thats fucking bullshit.
NO PREORDERS. i already posted this and it was removed due to low effort posts rule. here is a pile of context. battlefield 5 preorder bonuses were bungled bait
and switch and many players never received them, on top of the fact that the quality of the bonuses were as low effort as my post that was removed. as well,
battlefield 5 is one of the worst managed "aaa" titles in history lagging only shortly behind the battlefront 2 re-release. do not encourage this behavior from giant
corporate machines.
I played the alpha, and it was obscenely vehicle dominated. The map had massive 500m stretches where an infantry player would just die. Also, performance was
abysmal - couldn't get above 45 fps with a 9900k and a 1080ti.Was not a fun game, just getting smacked by vehicles all the time.
Only thing that could make this appealing to me even slightly would be if they go back in time to when these games weren't miserable grindfests performing stupid,
distracting challenges just to unlock the full content of the game, followed by utterly fracturing the playerbase by releasing the rest of the maps and guns behind a
paywall after a couple of months.
Anyone else notice that the tornado is spinning in the wrong direction?
Looks good, but is it just me or is all the hype dead? I'm looking forward to trying the beta but there is no excitement around this game anymore.
so is this game gonna have matchmaking? i've been spoiled by games with actual mmr and stuff and battlefield has always been an open season clusterjam..
I'm looking forward to trying it out but I have a feeling it's going to be yet another Battlefield game I'll skip. I think they are keeping the delayed turret system from
BF5 that I hate on top of other questionable choices like third person melee kills and special operators.
Can people stop crying now about the lack of communication? Maybe DICE didn't want to announce anything until they were ready....
After the disappointment that is Halo, I hope this is somewhat good at least. Would like to have one shooter to play during Fall.
Can you pre-order on Steam, play the "open" beta, then return your pre-order afterwards?
Here’s a question that I’m not sure has been addressed. If I’m on Series S and I want to play with my friends on Xbox One is that possible? Will I be able to just drop
down to their 64 player servers? Seems like a feasible option yeah?
I really hope this is good. Vanguard was fun but I’m not sure it’s worth 60$ due to some of the larger problems I had with it and after the CW integration ruined
warzone im skeptical this year will be any better. Halo infinite beta was pretty bland and I need something new to play so it really comes down to BF.

Might be another year of Valorant for me if 2042 doesn’t blow it out of the park.
[removed]
[deleted]
[removed]
It should.
I think the GamePass one is EA Access, so maybe not. EA Play is what they have on PC and let’s you play the game without having to buy it as long as you’re a
member. It’s two different programs.
OPEN beta kinda lost its meaning
I hope so. I used a pre order for an older CoD game and didn't really like it, but the Playstation store doesn't let you cancel pre orders post-beta
Wait for real? That's awesome. Except I don't know about this EA Play tho. Couldn't launch Battlefront 2.
Yes, but with 64 players instead of 128. And PC crossplays with PS5/Xbox Series
ahh yes, my gtx 1080 lives another day
[removed]
2700x and 3060 don't seem bad considering it's battlefield. It looks beautiful and it's always been a pain for cpu
Whew, CPU is going to be hard this time.

I've got a 2060 Super for the GPU and 16GB RAM, but my CPU is exactly Ryzen 5 3600
 I have a Ryzen 5 2600, RX 580 8gb, and 16gb 3200mhz Ram. I should be able to play it on a mix of medium and high settings though I would happily play on low
or medium to get a solid 60fps. With battlefield games, the visual affects don't really matter cause it's an fps game anyways.
Oh no, my mid-high PC from 5 years ago has finally fallen to minimum requirements CPU-wise.

DAMN YOU HIGH PC PART PRICES!!!
I don't get it, this seems fine?

1050 ti and 560 is Really Fucking Barebones for the studio that leads the development on Frostbite to this day. I have a PC that has a 1050 ti sitting around. It
doesn't run things great! I'm surprised DICE says it'll boot battlefield 2042

3060 is the same as a 2070, which is the same as a 1080. Which, yeah, that's recommended. Of course you're going to need GPU power to run recommended.

The only one that reads a bit wonky is the CPU reqs. A newer gen but smaller CPU is marked as minimum but an older gen, larger CPU is marked as
recommended. I'm assuming the CPU was picked a bit arbitrarily, since I'm guessing they don't rely quite so hard on specific CPU features, but mostly just core
count and perf.
So my almost 9 year old PC sits somewhere between recommended and minimum specs (i7 4770k, GTX 980)? That doesn't seem so bad...
For the first time in a long time I'm below minimum spec for a new game that I want to play. Feels bad.

Thanks, scalpers, miners, and general chip shortage.

My whole PC kicks ass except for the fact that I can't find a replacement for the ol 970.
I believe they changed. It used to be 1060 as a minimum, and a 2060, as recommended. It seems they have been optimizing and pushing the ceiling in the last
month or two.

FWIW, these specs are right on the spot: the most popular card is the 1060, and allowing 8GB of RAM while some games (like Deathloop) are already pushing for
16GB is a good thing.
Well, we are getting the next gen version with the 128 player support (and I am still suspecting that the last gen version will be kept at 30 fps) and with the new
consoles having 8/16 core/thread ~3.5 ghz Zen 2 cores this time it makes sense that they have optimized the game to require around that amount of power for 60
fps.

Still weird though how they are rating the 6 core / 12 threads Ryzen 5 3600 that can do up to 4.2 ghz as lower than the 4 core / 8 threads older gen i7 4790 that
maxes out at 4 ghz. But CPU requirement mentions are all kinds of weird for years now.

But I could imagine that at least on the GPU side this is for a ~1440p resolution w/o DLSS, given how close together the 3060 and 6600XT are and with no FSR
support announced. A 3060 is about 2070 to 2070S performance so I assume with DLSS every Turing GPU should be fine below 4K.

But we will see in a week.
shit i guess i actually need to replace my 980ti

nevermind im dumb
I don't see what's wild about that at all. 1050 is a basic ass card.
My Sandy bridge and 1070 cry at this.

Fuck someday I’ll be able to upgrade.
In the previous test, the game was locked to 30 fps on PC and ran like absolute dogshit with constant stutters and frame drops. Unless that was an ancient build it
doesn't look good performance wise.
Time to really put my 3090 to the test
Dang, I'm excited for this game but I'm on a i5 6500. Hopefully there is an easy method to overclocking my cpu :/
Hmmm,

What about a 3060 Mobile?
Huge RIP- I recently upgraded my computer to an R5 3600 (I still have an "old" 1070) and I only just meet the minimum requirements :'(
I'm a bit above the recommended so hopefully this is for 4k 60fps at medium so I can pull more frames at 1440p. Better yet, hopefully it supports Vulkan for some
smoother gameplay.
I guess I'm not going to play this with my 1060 and ryzen 5 1600.
Would an rx480 struggle with this
I just hope they put more of a focus on anti-cheat efforts now that the game is crossplay. You encounter cheaters too often in BFV.

Other than that, It looks pretty damn fun and getting back to modern/near future is going to be nice after playing BF4 to death once upon a time.
if they don't change TTK every other month like last BF it could be ok.
It *could* be good but their change to Operators that you can use on either faction is bizarre. Why not stick with their tried and true class system? Obviously to sell
battlepasses and new operators and skins for them. The new "levelution" of the weather effects seems like it will get old fast. DICE can never seem to get out of
their own way for the last decade or so. I might just stick to Battlefield Portal
If they'd just embrace the community and stop trying to discourage gaming clans..

Battlelog was great for this..
Maybe, I've not read all the details, but from what I've seen - there are no radical hew changes. Why should I play this game and not BF4?

\*played BF3-BFV

**Edit**: I was wondering what are the killer-features that let someone claim that this particular BF "has huge potential" and could make it "the best BF game"? Why
should I play it and not skip? Because each of the previous games brought some changes, some of them proved themselves and stayed, others left. Some proved
themselves and still did not make it to the next game (like destructibility severely reduced in BF3 and brought back in BF4).

So, what features make it "possibly the best BF game" for you and not "just another BF game"?
I won’t lie, I haven’t kept up much on this because of the last few and my computer just being to old (and no time at the moment). But seeing some of the stuff their
doing with past content and this trailer… I get a little hyped. I hope it does well, I really miss BFBC2 (that was my favorite so far out of all I played).

And of course the 1942 will always have a special place in my heart.
Dude, are you serious? I played BF1942 - BF1 and the DICE that made BF2-4 is DEAD! The last few Games were complete and utter garbage!
No campaign kills it for me.
There was absolutely zero chance EA won’t let this game release outside of 2021. Too much money on the line
Only one map was shown in this trailer its all Orbital.
So far we've only seen 3 'levelution' effects. 2 weather: the sandstorm and the tornado, and 1 map 'feature': the rocket.

I'd assume some are on multiple maps while others are unique to specific maps, like the rocket on 'Orbital'.

We've seen the sandstorm on the 'Hourglass' map, but I wouldn't be surprised if it's on the 'Borderline' map as well, since they're both set in the desert. The map
'Irreversible' is a snow map so there's likely a blizzard on that one. The tornado seems to be on all or at least multiple maps, since we've seen it on all 3 maps
they've shown in detail.
The devs said the weather effects are *rare*, not like levelution where it happens all the time. So you may play a few games on the same map and not see the
tornado or sandstorm.
To be fair the tornado looks cool as fuck so I'll take it.
As far as I know (someone can tell me I'm wrong), but I don't think they've definitely stated there *wouldn't* be other weather events - or map-based events of any
type. I think the tornado is their marquee item this go-around. I guess it's certainly possible that's the only weather event, but with the possibility of the spaceship not
taking off and exploding during lift causing a bunch of debris and other shit on the map, I suppose something akin to that is possible on others.
IIRC the weather hazards and levelutions are 2 different things and a map can have both. I'm not sure tho, but I think Jackfrags said this.
I think the weather is randomized (or controlled by the server owner) so any given match might be sunny, cloudy, rainy, foggy, hellstorm, etc.
I really enjoyed the Infinite flights, but to compare Halo to Battlefield is like apples to oranges. They both fill the same genre but are completely different experiences
("realistic" modern sandbox vs sci fi arena shooter). I'll be playing both for sure, I don't see the reason to pick one over the other.
Have you read the article they published? Progression seems to be great this time around. There’s a lot of stuff to unlock and earn.
Unfortunately it doesn't matter how mundane and blah Vanguard is COD will still handily outsell Battlefield no matter how great 2042 is. If 2042 launches in a
reasonable state it could easily do better than BF V but that's a pretty low bar to cross. I get it looks on course to do better but COD is a juggernaut, I think if 2042
does well it will be because it brought back people that used to like battlefield but weren't into BF 1 and V, not because it's better compared to COD or cannibalized
its sales.
Honestly, if 2042 has as many guns, attachments and vehicles as BF4 did, it's already a win in my book.

If they manage to launch relatively smoothly on top of that? (Honestly, even a mediocre launch is good by Battlefield standards)

It might have the potential to be GOTY.
I am not a halo player but I'm a not surprised by this one. Everywhere I've looked I've seen endless praise for Infinite's multiplayer going back to form?
Infinite is free though which I think probably will put it ahead.
Infinite has been pretty stellar from my experience besides a few issues such as the progression system and PC performance. Actual game itself is fun as hell.
100% BF5 felt like a COD WW2 copy compared to the chaoticness of BF1.
I had as much fun in the Vanguard beta than I did playing MW or WW2.

I mean, it aint Mw2 from years ago, but it's not the garbage that Cold War is.

That being said, it comes out near BF now, so I don't know if I'm getting it.
Infinite plays so fkn good though IMO. They just need to have it well optimized and bug squashed for launch and it might be a top tier Halo experience.
Did you play infinite this last weekend? I hated it the first playtest (mostly due to the obnoxious headbob) but was having a lot of fun a couple days ago. Feels very
much like classic halo to me but idk curious what others think.
There's no reason why they shouldn't. The Director's Cut for Death Stranding does for PS5.
Beta is being released next week, so..
There's plenty of leaked footage on YouTube, from the alpha
I mean...it's Battlefield. It'll play like Battlefield.
I think it does.
Yes, it has DLSS.
Battlefield V had DLSS but it was the shitty version of it, so this almost definitely will.
Indeed, DLSS as well as Reflex. [source](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/news/battlefield-2042-nvidia-dlss-reflex/)
They’re random and they damage the map but I don’t know to which extent. They appear at random times (if they appear at all) and every time from a random
direction.
Coz the 4790k still runs pretty much any games on the market. Most titles still only require 4 cores.
I assume its because they're actually taking advantage of hyperthreading (or trying to) which is why the newer generation i5 is only minimum spec.
Most games dont multithread
because it has 8 threads, and Frostbite is amazingly well multi threaded
Two days. Early access is two days long as well.
Yeah me too. I was also lucky enough to play in those two matches for like a minute or two before the game crashed or started to freezing up.
"Early access" is a not deceptive just straight up incompetent way of saying "preorder beta", which is then followed by an open beta.
I believe pre-orders get an earlier beta access from Oct 6-9. Everyone else gets beta access from Oct 8-9.
"On September 28, 2021, EA and Dice officially revealed that the Battlefield 2042 Open Beta dates will be October 6 to October 9. October 6-7 will be Early Access,
while October 8-9 will be an Open Beta for everyone to jump in and try out."
Where does it say that? The trailer says

**Open Beta October 8-9**

**Preorder for early access**

I feel like that's pretty clear?
Yeah, I had to think about it for 0.2 seconds instead of 0.1 seconds. How could they do this to me?
Seems there's an open beta period for people who didn't preorder so. . . Do that?
Hmmm interesting. I'm def gonna be keeping my ears open for this! Interesting find. Maybe new trend?
It is. Preorders are only getting early access.
Not usually, no. You just get a special emblem or something for participating in older games.
No, that’s never been the case with a Battlefield beta.
They mention in the Beta briefing that most of the stuff is already unlocked. They want people to test out the sandbox as much as possible, probably see if anything
breaks in ways the devs didn’t think about (this game does seem to have a lot of moving parts).
or get EA play pro for 15$/m and have your way. Open beta and all included...
> Apparantly buying the game for 90 bucks gets you "early access to unlock the game"

It also gets you first 4 battle passes which last 3 months each so what's the problem here
> battlefield 5 preorder bonuses were bungled bait and switch and many players never received them

can you please elaborate? I don't know anything about the bonuses.
No one cares. I’ll do what I want with my money, thank you.
45 FPS..on a 30fps locked test. Interesting.
> The map had massive 500m stretches where an infantry player would just die

Yep, sounds like Battlefield.
The tech test was locked at 30fps.
Well yeah, the alpha was an older build meant to test the server capabilities, not gameplay
Nice, sounds like old battlefield again. And it should satisfy everybody who only started with BC2, with vehicle heavy maps like heavy metal
The test was a blast, air was overtuned but everyone can bring anti vehicle weapons now. Vehicles once everyone is acclimated will be much less of an issue.
I'd very much like it if vehicles are actually a threat against infantry this time. Vehicles and infantry should be a part of a larger skirmish instead of vehicles solely
focusing on other vehicles and infantry solely going for infantry.

There are so many countermeasures against vehicles in BF (as there should be) but if nobody on a team is willing to use them then vehicles should dominate. But if
a vehicle isn't capable of doing that then it has no use other than focusing on other vehicles, completely removing the interplay between infantry and vehicles that
makes BF special.
But they've always locked maps and content behind expansion packs, booster packs, or DLC going back to BF1942. BFV at least bucked the trend by releasing all
of its maps for free as part of its live service, and BF2042 looks to be doing the same.
So... Never? Every single mainline game up until 5 has been fractured by xpacs or map packs. They've always had progression and unlockables in each class, and
they were *always* miserably slow until the console cod knockoff ones (Bad Companies).
They released maps/modes for free in BFV and they are doing so this game as well. Getting guns really wasn't much of a grind either
Tornadoes spin clockwise in the southern hemisphere and anti-clockwise in the northern hemisphere.
[removed]
They just haven’t been great with the marketing recently probably because they are focused on getting the game ready for release. I bet the hype train will come
back around after this beta starts assuming it’s well received
Reddit when there aren't a lot of trailers: "wow, dead game, no one cares and the devs know it'll suck"

Reddit when there are a lot of trailers: "wow this has way too much advertising/they know it sucks so they're trying to get you to buy it immediately"
I'm hyped as fuck, portal is going to be awesome.

Reddit being unhappy with slow marketing is an echo chamber. Don't fool yourself into thinking the people who check r/games daily are the majority. This game is
going to sell millions of copies and the majority of those people will not have noticed minimal trailers.
Yep, the hype is totally dead for one of the best selling franchises in the world. This will probably sell like, 40 copies total or something.
> but there is no excitement around this game anymore.

Where are you running your polls?
Well thats what happens when marketing goes completely silent a month before release. I really hope the game ends up being good but I'm kinda loosing faith tbh
I'm excited but very cautious.
I think that one is just you bud.
> but is it just me or is all the hype dead

It's hard to get excited for a BF game after the series of crap they've been releasing... and this looks to be more of the same, honestly.
How is the amount of. Hype relevant?
nope, hype isn't dead
None of the other games has it from my knowledge so I would guess no. Best bet is to expect cheaters on DICE servers and only select games from the server
browser (if the game has one)
You've always been able to queue up and get dumped into a server since like bad company, but it's not going to be SBMM or anything like that. Battlefield isn't
anywhere near a competitive title, it wouldn't make sense for a game like this that's all about chaos and combined arms instead of a balanced match between two
tightly coordinated competitive teams.
I expect this to be like Activision games, where matchmaking is based on showing lots of players they get dominated by players who pay extra, while those players
get lots of easy targets. Advanced monetisation advertising strats. If EA's not developed similar tech already, they're not the EA I know.
Having max sensitivity Tiger turret rotation in BFV would have been absolute cancer.
I mean, they haven’t released any substantial information about the game in the past month besides announcing the delay. So there was a major lapse in
communication that they probably didn’t intend for in their marketing plan.
>Maybe DICE didn't want to announce anything until they were ready....

...ready with what? Better art design in the advertisements? Just the right angles for the beta trailer?

Or do you mean that literally? Like, they weren't at ALL ready to announce or do anything for an entire month because they might have been panicking about the
current state of the game?

You know what works really well for a AAA game made by EA, one of the biggest publishers in gaming, and DICE, on of the biggest developers in gaming?
Complete communication/marketing silence for an entire month, with the occasional "we'll probably tell you something next week."

Woof, that's one way to do the marketing of a major game you've been declaring as the biggest thing you've ever created, I guess.
Halo infinite is being recieved well by most people, but I'll bite, what made you not like it.
Someone on /r/battlefield2042 told me yes after me asking the same question.
Here's something better, just get a trial of EA Play.
If you buy the cross gen version then yes. The catch (other than having to pay more) is that you need to download two different versions of the game.

I preordered the gold edition on my XSX and I have two different builds, one is the OG while the other is for the XSX and XSS.
>CW integration ruined warzone

And I thought the insistence on shoving warzone in our faces ruined CW.

And either way, no it's not going to get better with Vanguard.
[removed]
Battlefield 1942(2002) launched as a multiplayer only full priced game (with bots) and became the franchise you now know. Battlefield 2042 is a fully focused
multiplayer game (with option to play against bots) now as well, so it's more of a return to its roots.

Imo, most of the bf campaigns, with exception for couple of war stories, 3 and hardline; the singleplayer was a play-once-and-forget kind of deal. you don't buy
battlefield for its singleplayer, you buy it for the multiplayer and will spend the major part of your time in there. So if they have fully focused on mutliplayer for bf
again, that's a good thing.

If you really want to play solo or with a couple of friends, you can play the main modes against bots. which was a feature we haven't really seen since battlefield
2142(2006).
battlefield having campaigns was out of the norm.
It comes with Portal instead. 2 maps from 3 different eras of BF games (along with a lot of weapons and vehicles), custom games tools that allows to play with bots
and a lot of wiggle room to change rules of the game including allowing old school class systems. It’s a lot of content, [here’s a rundown of it]
(https://youtu.be/QypWGkr7diY)
Sony started pushing for $70 current gen titles then other companies like ea and 2k followed suit
People don't buy Battlefield games for a campaign mode. It's not the point, nor focus, of the game. Battlefield has always been about large scale multiplayer and it's
good that they're not wasting resources on a campaign mode
I can't believe people still complain about single player modes in multiplayer games
It comes with 2 different modes on top of the base multiplayer: Portal and Hazard Zone which are both massive additions to the game.
Game Pass on pc does give you access to the base version of EA Play so this should count.
It was originally called EA Access on Xbox and Origin Access on PC, but both were rebranded to EA Play.
Nope. EA Access is its old name. It is called EA Play on every platform. Game Pass include EA Play so it should be. If you have ultimate you could probably can try
both console and PC version if you want. At least this is what can get from that sentece.
Ea access and origin access were rebranded as Ea play and ea play pro respectively.

Ea play is included in gamepass, and ea play pro is only available on pc.
It’s open to anyone on the 8-9th. 6-7th is for early access.
For what it's worth if you really want to play a preorder only beta you can usually preorder a copy from Amazon, pay $5 down, then get an email with your beta code
and then get a refund for your $5 if you want.
To get EA Play games with Game Pass you gotta launch them from the EA Desktop Beta app, and your Xbox account must be linked to your EA account.
Thanks, I guess I more meant whether this beta will be available on PS4 since it is technically a last gen console
Hopefully my 1080 keeps surviving for another couple of years after we get past this shortages.
My 970 looking at the 4gigs ram like "does 3.5 + 0.5 count?"
hahaha, same!!! But honestly, at this point, with the GPU shortages, these developers need to scale back their games. Not only are we already headed for financial
disaster, but we're just getting through a period of time causing massive amounts of debt all over the place. People don't care about a GPU when they can't pay rent
or get food.

While it's great for advancement, the developers are basically costing themselves sales by making these games require so much to run them.
The amount of life I get to squeeze out of my 1070 ti is insane. Honestly I don't think I'll ever get a non-TI card at this rate because the staying power this card has is
ridiculous

Sure I don't get ray tracing but it's so early in tech life that I always hear about it chunking FPS that I'm not too worried about missing out yet
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
It's a bit weird that they're recommending a 2700x over a 3600, which generally is faster in games. The game probably scales better with more cores due to its high
playercount.
Me with a 1700
I have a Ryzen 5 2600, time to cry
Close to my 4 yr old set up as well -.-.
>3060 = 2070 = 1080

What? 3060 and 2070 are close but 1080 is pretty far back. Not being able to access DLSS is a massive handicap too.
the CPU is weird 3600 has better single core performance so maybe that's why.
I’m pretty sure the GPU scaling doesn’t work like that lol.

How does the high end card 3 gens back equal the starter card of next gen? Then why even buy a 30 series ever?

It’s more complicated than you make it seem.

I can get a 1080 for 700. A 3060 is 1400.
It's 2021 this means minimum is actually the 3060 at least of the first few months to a year where the devs act utterly surprised the game is unoptmized as hell on
95% of people's rigs and promise to fix it.
> I have a PC that has a 1050 ti sitting around.

I've been using one for years and can't see the point of upgrading it vs the cost of a new GPU. Works just fine.
> I'm surprised DICE says it'll boot battlefield 2042

I never noticed when "Minimum Specs" meaning changed from "Will be able to play the game on mostly low settings and still get a decent/well running experience"
to "Will at least launch the .exe"

Like I distinctly remember minimum specs meaning more than you can at least boot the game up. Which imo is a completely fucking meaningless metric because
who cares if you can JUST boot the game up if you cant actually run it.

My laptop is running a 1660ti so I'm just glad I'll be able to try this game out if I decide to buy it. There aren't many AAA games I really want to get so I've been able
to get by without feeling the need to upgrade at all.
GTX 970 is better than the 1050Ti so you should be good
GTX 970 gang represent. Still rocking mine as well. I want a new card but the prices are wild these days. I chose to upgrade to Ryzen and DDR4 ram at just the
right time.
Battlefield games tend to like high core counts, not sure why but it's just how it is. BF1 ran massively better after I switched to my 3700X than it did when I had a
4690k
These were technical playtests meant to test the core of the game with many functions turned off with limited graphics options. Doubt the Open Beta (the literal
demo meant to promote the game with early access sold as preorder bonus) would be in the same state that build was.
Nah it stayed at locked 30, which was done for testing anyway.
Back to BF4 bay-beeee
That’ll work
Has EAC
Yep, I’m one of the few people that adored bfv, but that whole fiasco was enough to make me never return to it. I’ve been sticking with bf1 to get my fix for now
They saw how much COD made with operator skins, likely we're gonna see the same deal with them selling character skin bundles.
I mean, they are doing what every other AAA games. It works in CoD, it works in FN, it works in Apex. It works everywhere and i think 99% people are fine with it. I
was kinda worried about it when they revelead it but now, i dont really care about that
Really? They got rid of the class system?? Lmao wow yeah this is a hard pass for me. Haven't really enjoyed a battlefield game since BF1. BF1 wasn't the best but
it was fun because of the operations game mode. BFV was pure trash

Just really not a fan of modern FPS shooters now with all of the money grabs. Just takes away the fun for me.
All of the gsneokay affecting content is free. Only cosmetic stuff do you have to pay for. I've played since battlefield 1942 on launch day and I just don't see the
issue with them. All they did is use the class system already present and expand it and add more unique elements.
Wait is Battlelog not a thing anymore? The last BF game I played a lot was 3
128 players
I am really confused by this statement. This game has tons of new stuff that BF4 doesn't have, plus PORTAL which if done right will have massive potential.
The gameplay is way evolved from BF4, BF4 looks and feels dated in comparison, and 128 is actually the biggest change to happen to battlefield since BC.
> Why should I play this game and not BF4?

Refreshed player count and the outside possibility that they actually create fun original maps. BF4 is mostly just filled with people who have been playing BF4 for
the past decade.
I dunno why play BF4 instead of BF2?
Tons of more content, more players, cross play, new modes, monthly updates, better engine?
It looks like a completely new game outside of the time setting lol
Are you for real? lol.

"Why should I play Halo Infinite when I can just play MCC?"
I wouldn't say they were complete garbage but they certainly were no where near the classic battlefield experience a lot of us grew up with. I am not talking about
bad company, to me that was a spinoff.
Nah they weren't. The gunplay in BFV felt very good, and BF1 had a very intense atmosphere
Huh? BF 3 4 were amazing (still are) BF 1 / 5 were bad but that doesnt mean 2042 is going to be bad as well lol, Its not only one studo thats working on 2042. Stop
being so negative, jeez
Time to stop living in the past and accept that shit changes.
I don’t think you’ll find many Battlefield fans that give a fuck about a campaign. I know I don’t come to Battlefield for that type of experience.
Their previous two iterations were god-awful so I won’t miss that aspect
Weird take. BF has never been about campaigns. And the campaigns haven't been good since BC2.

IMO, it's always been a multiplayer-focused game, and a campaign would just take away time, effort, and resources they could use to make MP a better and
smoother experience.
Battlefield hasn’t had a good campaign since BC2.
Battlefield is different from CoD in that while CoD has its roots as a single-player game, Battlefield was always a multiplayer title. The most it had prior to the official
campaigns was a bot skirmish mode.
Woof your coming to the wrong game for a campaign mode mate.
Well, They still have lore in the game. I understand that you are mad about it or not happy but at least we have lore
Battlefield originally never had a campaign. It was about large flushed out sandbox multiplayer maps. This is a return to form and a correct allocation of resources. I
have not spoken with a single person who was excited about Battlefield campaigns. I never played any of them. They lacked imagination and were boring.
Exception being Bad Company. But appears to be a one time aberration in the grand scheme.
When it comes to Call of Duty and Battlefield campaigns they've always been opposites for me. I only care about CoD campaigns, and haven't played their
multiplayer seriously in some years. On the other hand I have not given a single shit about BF campaigns because they've all been either downright awful or just a
forgettable waste of time, all I really care about is multiplayer because that's where the 'Battlefield Experience' actually shines.
Battlefields never been about the campaign.
This does not inspire hope
Pretty sure th tornado was on an other map as well. It was shown in an other trailer. The one with the tuk tuk.
Infinite is free so why wouldn't you play it.
Okay let's calm down a bit.
Apex Legends, another game published by EA that has crossplay doesn't have mkb support on console, so I don't think it is a certainty BF2042 will have it.
Yes there is a very clear reason. Mkb is far superior to controller in shooters and some people dont have the setup to use mkb on their console
You'd hope so but there's been no word as far as I've seen and most console games still don't.
What does Directors cut has to do with cross-play lol? Is the game online?
The past 3 games played very differently.
Like which battlefield?
> "Early access" is a not deceptive just straight up incompetent way of saying "preorder beta", which is then followed by an open beta

Its literally just saying getting early access to the beta... Your are just confused by the Steam term Early Access, but that doesn't remove the original meaning of
those words.
Oh that's great! I'll be sure to try it out then.
Was this ever a case happening? I always see this question pop up all the time and can’t think of any
https://stevivor.com/news/battlefield-5-everything-dice-knows-broken/

https://www.reddit.com/r/BattlefieldV/comments/msgvzs/reminder_of_why_you_should_not_preorderbuy_bf6/
How dare you.....?
Even on PC? If so, that would explain why it felt so terrible.
Thats just not true on most popular maps but ok. ALthough I think it is probably true in this one, way too many players....
He's pretty wrong, the only thing overtuned was air, ground vehicles were very easy to dispatch overall. The thing is in testing people were generally clueless and
not bringing a lot of anti-vehicle weapons but on release 50% of players are gonna bring anti tank or air weapons.
Yeah paid dlc maps were common for at least a decade, at least in fps games
The game doesn't look like it's set in the southern hemisphere.
> They just haven’t been great with the marketing recently probably because they are focused on getting the game ready for release.

Marketing and development are two very different departments, especially in a video game company.
They haven't been good communicating possibly ever, it just really came to light during the live service of battlefield 5 where constant updates are required
Dice went like 6 weeks with no communication at all, so this is different. I’m sure it did hurt hype cause the focus was all on cod in that time
I've always found it hilarious how people will say the hype died after not getting any news or trailers after a month or so. If it was that easy for a person's hype to die,
I question if they were really all that excited for it in the first place.
I know the game will sell out for sure but damn the 0 marketing has me hearing crickets. I hope the beta can bring it back.
For sure. Gotta see what state the game is in.
How does this look to be more of the same? It looks nothing like the last 3 BF games they've released?
I despise BF1, BFV, and Hardline, but man this absolutely doesn't look the same as the last few games. That's objectively untrue. That being said i'm not super
hyped about this game and i'll definitely be waiting to see how it turns out. I don't even plan on playing the beta since Hell Let Loose comes out on PS5 that week
It will have a server browser. Portal by nature needs one since it curates custom games (with unprecedented rule settings). It would be impossible to filter that many
rules with just matchmaking alone, you could end up in a game with only planes while trying to search for basic TDM.
This is misinformation. A patent floating around is not equivalent to implementation. They confirmed years ago that it was not used. It is just SBMM.
I skipped BF5 so I can't comment on the balance there, but I didn't feel it was a problem in any of the previous games I played. I could reliably destroy vehicles with
my RPG and repair tool or at least damage them severely if I managed to sneak up on them.

If other people thought ground vehicles needed a nerf then they should have done it another way IMO, like removing third person or practically anything else, just
don't mess with my aim in an FPS.
Times are tough right now, majority of games being worked on are remakes and enhancements for a reason. I'm just happy we're getting a true next gen battlefield
experience.
Because delay.
Were they wrong? They delayed the game, announced when they were going to provide additional information and delivered on it.
I posted this back over in the feedback thread from the beta:


The Good

* Guns sound fantastic
* Maps other than Recharge are solid for the most part
* Grapple and Repulser are amazingly fun to use
* Announcers are enjoyable to hear

The Bad

* Locking progression behind challenges is the worst system. Nothing about it feels rewarding or good. I just want to play matches and not focus on trying to
complete a challenge
* Outlines are awful. I understand the thought that if players can be any color, then it might be needed, but that leads to the point below
* The armor customization system is an absolutely step back in every way
* Bloom on the sniper
* The minimap is useless due to its range
* PC performance is bad with stutters during gameplay
* Sound design overall of players feels bad? I legit can't hear anyone around me, but that might be because I'm bad and deaf.
* I preface this by saying I didn't play Halo 5 multi, but this doesn't feel like a Halo game - scanning for items, marking enemies, knockback feels weak, nothing
reminds me of why I played Halo. I'd rather go play BF at that point.
* SBMM is atrocious

Overall in the current state of the game, I wouldn't want to pay for this if multiplayer wasn't free already.
I haven’t heard many positive comments about Infinite outside of the halo subreddit.

Nearly all the twitch streams I hopped into weren’t happy about their experience
Everyone is playing warzone though. Makes sense for them to focus on that.
Ah wow didn’t know
Typically the big AAA releases are limited to the higher tier of EA Play though, I can't tell if the base tier will have access in this case
Thanks, I wasn’t aware.
i know, I'm rockin a 1070 still. But really want a 3080. I skipped the 20 series cause it wasn't a big enough jump, and have decided the 30 series would be nice. But
I decided that when they released... Haven't seen one for anywhere close to msrp.
Honestly until ray-tracing becomes 100% standard and present in every single title with no option to turn it off, 1080 and the 1080 ti especially, will be relevant
basically indefinitely at 1080p.
And even if they were available, I'm not paying double of what they should go for.

A 3070 costs 1100€ on Amazon, it's fucking insane.
I don't know about that. Manufacture is up all over. The consoles are selling more than ever. Hardware is getting in a lot of peoples hands, there's just record
demand. And developers are going to continue developing their games mainly based on console hardware. But yeah, on the PC side a lot of hardware might be
going to mining. If only this really stopped a few years ago when the previous GPU frenzy was winding down and ASICs became popular, but boy
> but we're just getting through a period of time causing massive amounts of debt all over the place

If you're the federal government sure, but individual debt has gone down significantly over the last year. Unemployment payments and stimulus basically meant the
average American ended up better off, especially poorer ones, because the feds were printing and borrowing money on an unprecedented scale.

And local governments received huge payouts through the CARES Act that mean many major cities have been able to pay off all their prior debts.
> these developers need to scale back their games.

Oh, sure, developers will just take the game they've been working on for four years and magically "scale it back."

> People don't care about a GPU when they can't pay rent or get food.

The fact that the PS5 is the fastest selling console ever and GPUs have been instantly selling out shows that you have no idea what you are talking about.

> the developers are basically costing themselves sales by making these games require so much to run them.

Uh, it runs on the last gen consoles and the most popular GPUs. The vast majority of people can play this.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
Battlefield games tend to be quite multithreaded anyways
And still they only recommend a 4790 (not even the K-version) for the Intel side.

It's almost 8 years old!
These games (and many AAA games as of late) are becoming very CPU bound, when I was on my i5-6600K a couple years ago BFV was barely playable (that
CPU was min. requirement), and that was on a GTX 1080 at 1080p.
Frostbite scales very well with core count.
Wait, 3600 really faster in gaming than 2700x?
3060 Ti is about even with the 2080 Super right?
Uh. He’s almost right 1080ti =2070=3060
which battlefield game was this the case with?

Battlefield games are buggy disasters on launch yeah, but the bugs are generally all game bugs. Performance is usually solid.
Battlefield games are typically very well optimized. Frostbite is a great engine.
> the game is unoptmized

is no gamer slogan for "it doesn't run as good on my hardware as I want it to run"...

Battlefield games are in general ridiculously good optimized for what they are.

Other than RT improvements in the last BF (which is still not that optimized compared to the rest of the game and BF games in general) I also don't remember huge
performance gains through patches in Battlefield titles.
Tell me you've never played Battlefield without telling me you've never played Battlefield.

DICE might suck ass at making memorable campaigns, or making sure their games are bug-free at launch, but Battlefield is always super well optimized.
That game feels ancient, at least on console. It's probably my most played game ever, it's impossible for me to go back haha
Wow, thanks! I guess I need a new NVME drive.
Did he stutter?



^^^^^^^obligatory ^^^^^^^EAC ^^^^^^^bad
The gun play at launch was so good, maybe the best of any BF launch. It was stupid to ever mess with it.
What did you like so much about BF V? I loved 3, 4, and One. Just got V for free last month, and I didn't like it at all. It feels like they just changed things for the
sake of changing things. I much prefer One to V.

It also doesn't help that One is easier to run graphically. It's not like V is that much better looking, yet it much more demanding performance wise.
Its not battlefield anymore if they just copy what every other shitty game is doing. Battlefield used to be special, now its just a mediocre copy of larger success
stories.
Yeah but none of those are fucking Battlefield are they?
The class system is still there, people always gloss over the fact it’s in [Battlefield Portal, they’re custom games](https://m.youtube.com/watch?
v=QypWGkr7diY&t=132s). In fact there’s even more opportunities for class balance then ever before. You can make it 1942, BC2, or BF3 style classes all with
those era of weapons or just straight up 2042 weapons only. Plus these are on 1942, BC2, BF3, BF2042 maps as well. The option to have a traditional class
system is still very much there!
How does it take away the fun if microtransactions aren’t even something that affects gameplay? You don’t have to opt for getting the battle pass for those games
If exist for bf3 and 4,but not 1 or 5.
>tons of new stuff

What is the new stuff we haven't already seen in one of the battlefield games?

As I understand, PORTAL is just bringing old maps into a new game. Cool, but ... ?

Edit: Ok, I was wrong, PORTAL sounds like fun sandbox experience.
So, 128 is the biggest change? In 8 years? Nothing radical then.
Maybe we'll finally get to play maps that aren't just slaughter corridors.
I dunno as well. Just started playing BF3.
Never played neither Halo nor MCC.

It just feels like the game is turning into (or has already turned?) into another FIFA series when there is no incentive to buy a new game besides new players/clubs.
I wouldn’t waste your breath. The guy you replied to is only negative. Look at his post history. Dude complains about EVERYTHING and clearly has some issues. I
mean he said he would wait to play the PC version of Horizon so that he could mod Aloy because as is she’s “fat and ugly”.
I can respect the BF1 campaign. I mean it wasn't exactly a fun action romp CoD campaign, or a Bad Company campaign, but I can respect what it tried to do.
BF3 actually had a damn good campaign.
Wait, we hated BF3s campaign?




Not exactly jaw dropping like old school Modern Warfare 1s campaign but I thought it was pretty serviceable for a BF game ..
Apex Legends was initially released before the PS5 released, and before crossplay was as prevalent as it is now. This game is made by a completely different
developer, on a different engine, with different design philosophies and dev pipelines...

The only similarities between both games are that they are shooters, and they are published by EA.
It becomes almost irrelevant when crossplay is the default way the vast majority experience the game with anyway.

Most similar games with crossplay allow you to exclude certain control methods anyway.
No shit. The whole point is that crossplay is already there, so you’re already playing against Mkb players if you’re on crossplay lobbies so allowing it doesn’t matter.
Plus, Input based matchmaking has been a thing for years now.
It's so weird that people keep saying this as if aim assist doesn't exist
"far superior" as if aim assist doesn't make you competitively viable to the point where ppl turn off crossplay on PC
I'm talking about feature support. There's littke reason for DICE not to include it.
I know it's early access to the beta because I'm familiar with how it's used but a halfway competent communicator knows that you can't keep early access (to the
beta) implicit, because it's a weird way to get that idea across. It's ambiguous and straight up doesn't give you the necessary information, while "preorder beta" tells
you everything you need.
Correct. PC had locked graphics settings and locked 30fps
How do you know?
Ign: "This game is a masterpiece of shooting battlefield games, incredible, looks so amazing too. The guns! The weather! The Tornado... wait a minute, the wrong
direction? 2/10"
This map is in French Guiana
Yeah but just like what halo infinite campaign seemingly is going through, they aren’t gonna show gameplay of something that doesn’t look good enough to show
yet. I get that those are two different parts of the company. Sure they could be doing other things besides showing gameplay but that’s really all people have been
wanting and instead are stuck seeing leaked videos of months old builds

It still takes dev work to create a build that they can use for marketing purposes
Can i ask why you despise bf1 out of curiosity?
This is a really simple problem to solve. Halo has a crazy number of game modes. They separate the custom games from ranked games.
Previous games like BF4 did not have 4+ tank classes per side. Giving the Tiger the same turret rotation as a Greyhound tank would have been completely
imbalanced, not to mention how ridiculous it would look.

With 2042, tank turret rotation is faster in general so it’s hardly even noticeable.
More like "confused" - DICE is usually pretty active in the community with updates, changes, etc. The fact that they released the first couple of trailers, went quiet,
THEN came back to say "we're delayed until November," THEN went quiet AGAIN, and jumped out with "Here's the beta dates!"

I mean, if everything's going okay and the game releases in a good state, then more power to them. I've just learned with game releases all my life that when a
game company makes a bunch of announcements, only to go radio silent for an extended period of time and make their fans go "sooooo, what's up guys?" it
generally doesn't bode well for game development.

I want this game to be amazing (I love the Battlefield series); I was just perplexed how they started out with "Look at all this cool shit!" and then went with "we'll tell
you something in a week...couple of weeks...month....something like that, later" was really odd.
> Locking progression behind challenges is the worst system. Nothing about it feels rewarding or good. I just want to play matches and not focus on trying to
complete a challenge

Oh, I hate that shit as well. Arguably BF games had stuff like that as well but only on top of general XP pogression and only for the odd top end guns.

> PC performance is bad with stutters during gameplay

That kept me from playing to be honest.
Apparently the progression system was only in place for the beta tests. You'll be getting xp as normal on release with the daily challenges.
Seems a lot of that bad is pretty fixable. For what it's worth I loved the technical preview. I'm glad they blended in elements of halo 5 multiplayer which was great.
Everyone has rose tinted goggles for Halo 2-3 multiplayer but they both feel super dated in comparison. Also glad they didn't take a Reach/Halo4 COD approach to
multiplayer which nearly killed any love I had for competitive halo.

Infinite feels like a great blend of 3 and 5.

My main concern yet is the XP gain though and armor color. SBMM felt fine, especially considering there's only one Playlist to choose from
A lot of the "bad" complaints you have are just bad takes. The only one that's really agreeable is the progression system, imo.

The challenges *do* feel bad, and not getting XP per match played in addition to challenges is a huge no-no and hopefully they fix it asap.

I think the only other thing I agree with is how shite the minimap is. It doesn't track *anything* if it's outside three feet, it feels like.

But.. how is armor customization a step back? lol That makes literally no sense.

You get to choose your helmet, visor, your hands, forearms, shoulders, feet, legs, body, and various accessories for the aforementioned areas. You also get to
customize your spartan's body type, their voice, annnnd you can add prosthetics.

It's the most in-depth customization since Reach. The only downside is coloring. But, there should be a pretty wide variety of shaders ala Destiny, so I'm not really
worried about that.

Everything else about armor customization is perfect, though.

And, PC performance being bad is most likely due to the tech preview being an ancient build they forked off from the main game long ago, and optimization in these
types of things usually isn't a priority. I'm sure the full game will run much better.
Then why even bother making a new game?
I believe by the way it's worded the base version will have access to the early access beta but as normal will be limited to a ten hour trial of the game.
It'll probably at least give access to the beta, but not the full game unless they really want to bump up player numbers.
Remember all that stimulus is going to come back to bite the average individual in the ass with federal budget cuts and so on. And don't forget inflation which was
already bad before the pandemic. All over the world really. We haven't even started to see the half of it.
Fake news. Production on the PS5 has been limited due to the virus. It very well may be the fastest from shelf-to-sold, but that doesn't mean much when overall
production is the bottleneck. Nice try, though.

Also, while I'm aware it runs on last-gens, it isn't going to run smoothly on them. If I have to crank down all my settings for the newest game out there, just so I can
run it, that experience is vastly different from the clips we see everywhere on machines with the latest and greatest.

Additionally, maybe you need to take a look at GPU prices these days. $1000 on a good GPU that has a viable lifespan shorter than a mobile phone is not
something any child can afford, nor is it something the overwhelming majority of college-aged or older, adults can afford. Insane college tuitions/loans that they
need to pay back, skyrocketing rent prices, high used car prices, food prices going up and up...

Can they play it on what they have? Maybe. But it certainly won't be the crisp experience that is shown.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
It's indeed peculiar. Also, the 6600k apparently has frame drop issues in BFV, and I personally experienced stutters even in BF1 with 4 core / 4 thread CPUs - how
in the world will that CPU handle double the player count?
Yep I still have a 4970k and made the mistake of upgrading to a 2080 a few years ago without upgrading my cpu. In BFV I play on absolute minimum graphics and
only average 60-80 fps @ 1440p however there's a lot of micro stuttering and brief lockups that occur. It's fine for the most part but terribly disappointing to have to
go through. I feel like 2042 will be even harsher on the cpu so I'm not sure how they could still recommend a 4 core cpu.
Depends on the game. 2700x will be faster if the game is optimized for multithreads
Yep, quite consistently. But not by a huge margin.
Correct
After playing MW2019 for a solid year, BF4 felt clunky af (PC).
Honestly any anti cheat is better than what BF V has.
I haven't heard complaints about EAC before.
What's wrong with it?
Totally agree!! The improved gun mechanics itself was a huge plus, and on top of that TTK was nice. Then they *had* to ping-pong TTK.. Goddamn was that game
a clusterfuck, to say the least….
- Not being able to spam mark was a good change

- TTK and gun balance felt amazing before they changed they decided to change things December 2019.

- Breakthrough is a great gamemode as a compromise for a large-scale version of Rush.

>It also doesn't help that One is easier to run graphically. It's not like V is that much better looking, yet it much more demanding performance wise.

Funny, because 1 still gives me trouble to this day and stutters like crazy, meanwhile 5 is smooth as butter.
I have played every single game in the series on launch day including 1942. IDK WTF you are talking about. Did you even play in the early game test? I did. It IS
battlefield. You'll see at open beta.
Battlefield has been some version of copying others since Bad Company 2 lol, stop acting like this is anything new. It's the correct choice to monetize a game that
will need a lifeblood of cash throughout its life to keep the updates flowing.
[removed]
A shooter is a shooter is a shooter. This won't change battlefield nearly as much as you seem to think it will
They aren't giving you the choice of freely selecting and mixing and matching your weapons like before. The guy just said that they are implementing an operator
system like RS6Siege so weapons and other gear is going to be paywalled.
Lol, you sound like a hipster. 128 is a radical change, conquest works differently with sectors (multiple capture points that you need to have all of to score, but
controlling one allows you to spawn), and of course Portal and Hazard Zone.

But most Battlefield games are iterative anyway, this is the absolutely the most radical change Battlefield has seen in over a decade. So many core aspects of the
series have changed, with the PLUS system, vehicle call ins, and new specialist abilities.
What you don't like playing Operation Locker?
There are plenty of maps that are way more open...

[deleted]
Lol, Im glad most people here agree with my take, its so weird to me when people just "give up" on games before they get any chance to even try it or look at it. We
didnt see really any full gameplay of the game and this dude is already calling it trash and the worst game ever. Its so weird to me, just because their last game
wasnt the best doesnt mean their new game cant be good. I mean look at MW2019 reboot for example etc.. Its just so weird to me. Cant wait for 2042 tho
It was buggy and so railroaded that it made Call of Duty look like a sandbox. It was almost unanimously derided when it released.
It was decent, better than BF4 certainly.
I mean Death Stranding has even less similarities yet you still used it as an example
That and in games with SBMM you go against people on your level anyway so whether MKB or controller you're on the same-ish playing field of skill.
As someone that has played pc and console for 3 decades a controller with aim assist is absolutely not comparable to a decent kbm player. Yes some people are
crazy good with controllers but the average person with a controller should be getting stomped by a decent kbm.
>controllers are so good when paired with an aimbot

why not let mouse and keyboard users use one as well? its only fair.
That's only at top level play. Casual controller players get wrecked by casual mkb players.
depends on the game, pro console play for siege is a joke. it all depends on how strong the devs make the assist, apex and fortnite are generally the only games
where aim assist performance is contested since longer time to kill rewards consistent tracking over flicks
Across all games as a whole, if you are kbm and *consistently* getting wrecked by controller players and not the occasional really good controller player you suck at
kbm. The level of precision and responsiveness is so much higher especially if you have dpi buttons. There are some exceptions like MCC where its heavily tilted
toward console players but that is the minority of games.
\>Preorder beta

Bro i'm so happy you're not the one in charge of the marketing
~~Not that I agree with this nitpick, but the map in the trailer is supposed to be set in France.~~

Edit: Turns out I'm wrong. So nvm that...
>French Guiana

well that is in the Northern Hemisphere
BF1 is the one I hate the least out of all of them, to be fair it’s a gorgeous game with some really cinematic moments. That said i feel if you’re going to make a WW1
game then make a WW1 game, but BF1 is absolutely not WW1 in anything except skins and weapons. Furthermore I really didn’t like a lot of the design decisions
they made for gameplay such as accuracy bloom, movement, the sweet spot mechanic, etc.

I really dislike the way BFV plays, and I feel like that’s a design direction that began in BF1.
Sounds like the solution is to not have 4+ tank classes per side if they can't be balanced correctly (without messing with your aim). The first person clips I've seen
clearly shows the player struggling to move the canon smoothly because of the obnoxious way it works in first person. Tbh I don't think I would mind as much if first
person worked like in third person.
I'm with you man but the amount of people who feel entitled to their demands when they should understand it's obviously in their best interest to be vocal about their
updates and current status but also being realistic regarding announcing plans when they're solidified.
Really? Can you link me where you found that?
If they fix it, then I'm all for it and I would happily play. Never got around to playing 5 so can't speak too much there, but 3 has always been my absolute favorite. I
will never like bloom though and will always want it removed.

SBMM was pretty bad in my experience. It was either a full on stomp by either side and can't say I felt like I was having fun in a lot of the match ups.
> But.. how is armor customization a step back? lol That makes literally no sense.

Ah sorry, I shouldve been more clear - the color system is a mess. If you're going to make outlines a thing, at least don't take away the color system from the
previous games - as you mentioned. On its own it's fine, but with outlines give us the full options then (not shaders).

I wouldn't say they're bad takes. Plenty of people don't like bloom and I don't see anything in the multi that reminds me of why I played Halo multi. If you like it, cool
more power to ya, but it's a disappointing Halo game overall.
> And, PC performance being bad is most likely due to the tech preview being an ancient build they forked off from the main game long ago, and optimization in
these types of things usually isn't a priority. I'm sure the full game will run much better.

It should be if you are having an open beta...
That makes sense and feels pretty reasonable
Tru, makes sense
Yeah, these fools don't know the economics of what this shit is doing. We haven't even come CLOSE to the real pain this is going to cause. These people are too
busy playing vidya games instead of paying attention to the markets and the impact just printing money out the ass causes, lol. All the unemployment paid out, all
the stimulus money given out... That shit is PEANUTS compared to what's coming.
[removed]
[removed]
Yeah the 6600k isn't even in the same league as the R5 3600 so why they chose that as the equivalent i've got no idea
Nothing like high level cheaters. I could understand low level accounts but it's consistently high level cheaters that I encounter. Like, what the fuck is you doin EA?
Completely jettisoning the class system, a core part of the series’ gameplay, is certainly new.
[removed]
[removed]
When in a chaotic environment with up to 124 players in it, being able to tell the teams apart is of extreme importance. Some cheap solution like giving them red
outlines would just mess with any potential stealth tactics.
> They aren't giving you the choice of freely selecting and mixing and matching your weapons like before. The guy just said that they are implementing an operator
system like RS6Siege so weapons and other gear is going to be paywalled.

On the contrary, the loadout system is more freely open than ever. Any specialist can use any weapon and and any secondary gadget. Specialists only determine
your passive perk and active gadget.
That guy you're basing your opinion on, doesn't know what he's talking about. Look it up yourself, or read some other comments. It's absolutely nothing like R6 or
Apex or Overwatch or anything else like that.
I’m under the impression that the free battle pass gives out operators, unlike siege where coming in you have to either start with something like the gold edition, pay
for a season pass/bundle to get operators, grind out operators or pay $5 for specific operators.
What...? They've removed class weapon restrictions, so the system is much more flexible than previous games. Must be a must buy for you
Love me some locker chaos.
honestly the best map when you need a break from all the vehicles slaughtering you while you're sprinting to your objective.
He's referring to the overwhelming number of 'Locker 24/7' type servers that populate those older BF games now. As official support died off, standard servers are
harder to find and custom ones are more numerous.
I mean that would literally be a case of making them like they used to. I feel like you didn't really think this through.
Because it is a PS5 game that was released this week, and it brings full feature support. DICE usually pushes for full feature support.

It's ultimately a question unannounced by DICE, but we can infer based on the following:

1. Battlefield always tries to include accessibility options, as well as competitive ones. MKB falls within that

2. For the past couple of years, crossplay has grown and new standards have set in. Games before then made different decisions than they do right now. DICE
announced crossplay, I *highly* doubt they will cut back on options.

3. Most competitive games that support multiple input methods a couple of filters to widen narrow the matchmake algorithm. We can infer DICE will include it,
because its direct competitors do.

Apex is an older game, it focused its support in other areas (even by BR standards). That's a Respawn decision, not an EA one.
Unless SBMM is completely broken like in Modern Warfare.
Depends on the game. Halo MCC controller players are just fucking scary man. The magnetism and aim assist are actual aimbot levels of assistance.
I'm not sure why you think this is the case. It really depends on the game and the amount of aim assist. Controllers are very strong in Warzone to the point where
most top players use them, and Halo MCC easily favors controllers. Games with higher ttk and strong aim assist will likely favor controllers because aim assist
tracking is probably going to be stronger than manual tracking with a mouse in most cases. But again, it all depends on the game, ttk, movement, aim assist
strength. You can't just make a blanket statement that kbm is always better, that is just false.
Aim assist isn't aimbot. Try aiming on controller without aim assist. You'll have a hard time and miss so many bullets. With a mouse, it's easier to be precise, so you
don't need aim assist.

Idk why so many PC players try to dispute this shit. Just stop. You're embarrassing yourself
Depending on how strong the aim assist is. I've played games where I was absolutely rekt by console players, I spectated them, and they aimed roughly in whoever
they were shooting at's direction and the bullets just gravitated towards them.
lol not true at all with games with aim assist. I've absolutely destroyed in normal pc lobbies while playing on my PS4.
No, French Guiana
I can appreciate that
A WWII game with only 1 tank per side. Great idea.
Sorry, think I must have misread the Eurogamer article. They were speculating that the system should be changed to that and said that the community hated the
current system.

To be fair I agree with you and Eurogamer here, focusing on challenges every game gets old quickly. I'd be surprised if 343 didn't change it.
I agree on bloom, never been a fan. 5 obviously had the rough campaign but it was the best multiplayer in my opinion since 3 thanks to the weapon sandbox and
standardization of load outs.

Infinite has the equipment pickup and art style of 3 while fine tuning the quality of life features of 5 which I find to be a good blend besides a few things that need to
be changed. I hate the overly bright shield the aim assist for some guns like the sniper and skewer needs work.

I had no issues with sbmm but halo always has ranked and social Playlists. Throwing every player into one Playlist with no prior game history to measure
ELO/MMR would facilitate some balancing issues I assume.

Cautiously optimistic
Ya I bet you can run it on a R5 2600
Classes just have a unique skin attached to each gadget choice available. Hardly jettisoned. I fail to understand why people keep repeating this.

Want to play as assault? Here is your AR, your medic bag and your revive defibs. Your medic bag determines how you look. Want to be an engineer? Have at it
with either a turret or a unique RPG. Either gadget comes with a unique skin. The classes haven't gone anywhere, the visual presentation of each gadget's solder is
just different now.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
What you mean exactly like bf4 had? Outlines and enemy markers have been standard for multiple generations, including battlefield. Not like soldiers in bf4 were
distinguishable either, even without sharing operators
So you didn't play in the early access thing I take it. Some of us did. Its fine. You'll see in open beta. All the past games you had literally 4 versions of people that all
looked the same outside of BF5 and it was never an issue.
True there will be some "free" operators but there still will be additional and exclusive operators to thosr who shell out the money. Just like in Call of Duty and
literally every other AAA FPS.

I don't trust EA wuth anything they are notorious for their bs monetization. It's pretty much expected at this point.
Oh currently? Yeah, the ratio has definitely changed significantly.
for real lmao, i’m not even very good at shooters, but holy shit when i cross play with my ps5 homies it’s not even funny, i just whoop ass constantly or am carrying
us in splitgate/warzone lol

to see people who probably consider themselves more “serious” gamers (judging only on that kinda comment) is just silly, M&KB will always beat controllers, even
with a generous aim assist.
It’s not embarrassing, the idea that you need an assist to be competitive should tell you all you need to know. It’s not elitism, it’s assists vs no assists. If controllers
are truly superior, then y’all would have no problem playing the game like every mkb gamer does, with no aim assist. You wanna talk level playing field? Then stop
demanding assists against pc gamers since y’all so fucking good. You said it in your reply. You NEED aim assist on, or your controller is dog shit. If a keyboard and
mouse player NEEDED aim assist, he’d get banned for aimbotting. You choose to play with a controller. It is not inherently bad. But acting like kbm gamers are
embarrassing themselves by stating objective truths is a real hot take.
I say it's whatever you are better with. I know people precise with a controller and know a person just insane with FPS games with a trackball. You master whatever
instrument you are better.

I don't expect a person that plays controller to be skilled on MKB and vice versa like I don't expect a guitarist to pick up a bass and be good.
Yeah try playing MCC for example. Aim assist is so fkn strong I can stick to playing Halo with controller and be competitive in just about every match against MKB
users.
[removed]
Ah no worries, I was excited for a second that they would remove the system. Would definitely improve the game a lot for me.

Hope they remove it in the end.
Give it another shot when full release is out!
Do you think there was maybe a reason certain weapon or gadget combos were only available on specific classes and couldn’t be mixed at will? Or was that just a
stylistic choice?
[removed]
Yeah, basically mark or shoot anyone that didn't have a healthbar and shoot at that. Same as CoD. Shoot at the red nameplate.
Literally 3/4 of the BF4 servers are US vs US and you can go 2 hours playing without ever realizing you were switched teams or it was US vs US. *IT DOESNT
MATTER*
BF V drastically reduced enemy spotting, eg there is no marker floating above your enemies head most of the time. They still can be spotted but it takes things like
using flares or dedicated equipment to spot them. I quite liked the change because it enabled far more flanking and using good positioning against enemies, before
if one person saw you then everyone just shot the maker and that was it.

The devs have said spotting is going to be closer to BF V than other battlefields which is a good thing I think, friendlies will still be marked though so I'm not sure
why people are freaking out thinking they won't be able to tell the teams apart. Since it should be obvious who your teammates are I don't get what the problem is.
No, all specialists are free.
i don't think it's a serious vs casual debate. there are objective truths to this. and then there are subjective anecdotes and preferences. the argument gets muddied
real quick when people start talking about preference vs reality. i understand that i have an inherent bias toward my preferred input, but even having said that i can
still try to be objective about it. i wouldn't play a racing game with a keyboard. i wouldn't play dark souls with dk bongos.

i think it's strange people want to play with aim assist at all. and on top of that, that those types go to threads like these and talk about how kb+m users embarrass
themselves by trying to make sense of it. assists make things easier, they don't raise the skill ceiling somehow.
This is not true, most of the top Warzone streamers are controller players on PC. It all depends on the game and the amount of aim assist in that game. Halo MCC
is even more tilted in favor of controllers.
How about this: how about you yourself pick up a controller and turn off aim assist for every game. How about you yourself try with all possibilty to get good at
aiming and being precise with just your little thumb. Go ahead. Do it. Then come back and tell me again how controller players should turn off aim assist.

Also, I'm both a console and PC player :)
> If controllers are truly superior,

Who the hell are you arguing against? He said literally the opposite.
[removed]
I think it started out as a way to distinguish classes, but the hard distinction had a tendency to do more harm to class balance more than help it all in the name of
some arbitrary need to shape classes. There's a reason BF4 began to play with the idea of opening certain weapon archetypes to multiple classes: it's more fun to
use the guns you like to use to play how you want to play instead of being forced under artificial limitations simply because you want a certain gadget.

Recon is a perfect example of this: There's no real reason why the class dedicated to scouting and relying positional information has to be a sniper. Why can't it be
an up close and personal class relying Intel to the squad while assaulting an objective? The two best incarnations of Recon, in 2142 and 4 IMO, opened up these
choices by giving them access to decent midrange carbines.

Classes exist because on some level fulfilling a role on the battlefield should come at the cost of not being able up fulfill another role, but tying roles to weapons
IMO hasn't always been the most successful design choice in Battlefield. A medic wielding an LMG in BC2 for example always felt like a misstep to me: why is the
weapon best suited for stepping back and laying down supporting fire on the role meant to be in the thick of things picking up teammates? It feels more naturally
paired with the ammo class. At the same, why should the ammo class be tied to a cumbersome LMG? Why not let them use a shotgun and be in the thick of the
action alongside teammates providing resupplies?

Frankly splitting guns and gadgets should have been a change implemented a long time ago. They've always flirted with the idea anyway, especially after BF4. I'm
sure they're not gonna nail balance from the start but they were certainly already missing the mark in most games with the weapon/gadget pairs already so fuck it.
I'm excited for the change.
Yeah, being able to tell the enemy apart? It's simple, if they don't have a blue or green Dorito, you ventilate them.

The ONLY issue is voice ques, you can tell an enemy is nearby cause they are talking a different language
Warzone matchmakes by control type though. So even if they're using controller on PC they're not playing against mouse and keyboard players.
No I’ll continue to use mouse and keyboard and not lean on crutches tytyty
Jesus christ this is so cringe you must be like 12 because you definitely act like it, this is coming from someone that has pc gamed primarily for 30 years.
[removed]

What if I won't be playing FUT? Is the single player, career and gm modes fun?
So take me. Working, mid 30s and I play with my mates from school once a week. We literally can ONLY play Pro-Clubs, because it is impossible to play 2v2 with
four friends. I just started playing again with FIFA20, I just couldnt believe it, when my friends told me.

Then you gotta deal with pro clubs, which has a weird balancing because if you are in the lowest 3 Divisions you 80% play people that are WAY out of your league
creating new clubs to own casuals like us. If you get a bit higher you will have easier games that are more competitive, still ridiculous.
Barely a paragraph about Career mode and it has no details at all. I know many people buy the game for FUT but it's still disappointing that a review ignores a
significant portion of the game.
I have to admit, FIFA the game, does a good job of replicating FIFA ~~the sports league~~, right down to the corruption and greed.

Edit: Okay, I fucking get it. FIFA is not a sports league. Whatever the fuck it is, it *is* connected to the game and it *is* corrupt and greedy. I swear, some people
just have to nit pick.
First year I've not got the game, just fed up at this stage basically, all they care about is fut and the mode and the game is 99% the same every year, a new coat of
paint isn't enough. Even though I've heard positive things about the gameplay it's not enough to make me want to give it a chance.
Something that I really like about FIFA is how I can simply not bother with the MTX on FUT because I can spend hours and hours playing the other modes. And
they changed a lot on the VOLTA mode, they're focusing on an arcade experience with online features and it's great, I had fun the new gamemodes like disco lava
and dodgeball
I really don't think review headlines like this really help anyone. It kinda just comes off as farming for the Reddit crowd.

The people who want to play this game don't follow gaming news and review sites, they're going to buy the game anyway to play FIFA with their friends, or they've
already pre ordered it and they're eagerly awaiting it.

It's kind of depressing but the reality is you can't kill the juggernaut that is FIFA, casual sports gamers are a giant market and they're never going to hear or listen all
the cries of reddit posts or gaming news articles/reviews like this. People are going to keep buying FIFA games until either the end of days, or whenever football
loses popularity, and I expect the apocalypse to come before that.

Just ignore it and move on if you know it's not for you.
I am really happy that PES (now called eFootball) will be free to play. Also if you buy into the new premium match pass (free one is also available), there will be no
more lootboxes. Instead of getting a random player from a pool, you can directly select the player you want from that pool.
[deleted]
I have not read the article but I do think the game should be reviewed in the sand was Call of Duty is. There are multiple game modes, not just FUT. FUT also is
easier than ever to make a good team without spending a penny. The gameplay has improved since last year most definitely.

It should not be full price which I feel should be said for al annual sports games but it is what it is.
[removed]
lmao “morally bankrupt”

IT’S A FUCKING VIDEO GAME. Customers want the content? The game dev can charge for it? Customers will pay for it?

WHY THE FUCK wouldn’t they charge for it?

This isn’t insulin. It’s a soccer video game. Morally bankrupt.     Grow the hell up, Jesus Christ. Get some perspective. If you don’t want to pay for the video game,
you truly certainly do not have to. If people will, they’d be insane not to charge for it.
Oh it’s that moment in the year when game journalist write articles just to appeal to the broad audience?

It’s so easy to shit on EA, right?
Can anyone tell me how the new FIFA handles online friendlies? That's all I care about and when they started trying to funnel everything into FUT they basically cut
the ability to just have non-ranked online friendly with a random opponent.
I've only played like fifa 10,12,15 and I've heard that EA kept adding alot of loot boxes so I never tried to go near fifa. But how's pes? I recently heard that they are
releasing a f2p version of it called efootball. I've been itching to try out some football but don't really know which game to play.
I don't really understand what the difference is between these game modes and magic the gathering or Pokemon cards as far as applying morals or ethics to it. It's
triggering the same addictive gambling reactions toward kids isn't it?
I just think that having the FUT mode behind the paywall that is the game disc is not something I am willing to spend my money on when it’s already such a pay to
win game mode
... Didn't we just do a review of how shit a fifa game was? Jesus Christ was that last year?
Yes. These are the modes I play and I love them. I never go near FUT.
If you're a casual fan then the modes will be fun but for long time fans the lack of improvements in these modes is disheartening.

For example, they continue to do the bare minimum each year e.g. they hype up a new Create A Club feature when really this is nothing more than copying and
pasting thr Pro Clubs assets and calling it a day. Absolutely no effort in terms of proper team/player customisation here, just a straight copy and paste which is the
bare minimum that should have been done years ago.

But FIFA is designed from top to bottom for a casual pick up and play arcade experience. So most people can pick up the game and play any mode and have fun
with it, but it's only when you dive deep and want more from the experience that the cracks truly show and EA's lack of investment across the board of their biggest
IP is disappointing to say the least.
There is one paragraph in the review in which the reviewer basically says he doesn't play career mode but has heard that it has been improved.

But hey, got to get that anti-MTX Reddit karma!
That's kind of the reality of any game with a competitive ladder, it's not just a FIFA thing. If you really belong in the lower ranks, the lower rank match experience
rarely has people that actually belong there because it's not statistically likely for them to exist and the people in the game will be placed in these lower ranked
games for calibrations and absolutely destroy the real lower ranked players.
As a mostly offline player myself... career mode is essentially the same as last years version with the addition of a lite create a club. I think last years career mode
is decently robust so I mostly okay with that outcome. Gameplay feels improved which helps the overall package.

It's interesting to see reviews focused heavily on FUT and the microtransactions when I'm not affected by it as an offline player. And when I do casually venture
online it has never bothered me to ignore all of that shit.
I don't know a single person that buys FIFA for FUT, but I know plenty who buy FIFA. I think it's a small percentage of people that make EA a shitload of money.
>I know many people buy the game for FUT

That's true. But many people people are mad about fut so that's why these articles are written.
don’t worry about, the devs themselves have abandoned career mode since the beginning of the PS4/XONE era.
I mean, EA ignores Career Mode too, and it's becoming an increasingly less significant portion of the game, so it's fitting.
Its so fucking boring for the people who dont even touch FUT.

We fucking get it. Its a scam. Can we stop fucking crying about it
Who cares? A purchase for this game supports EA's greedy tactics.

It's cool that there's a career mode that some people might like, but that's not the point.

Everyone needs to boycott sports games from EA and 2K if we're ever going to see developers actually giving a fuck about them ever again.

They barely make any changes to the career modes in all of their sports games, just play last years.
i think one reason they buy is to just continue playing because all the players move to new game
Il tell you what it's like, same a last year with slight gameplay improvements/changes depending on how you feel about them, same as the last 10, probably still
missing features that were in fifa 07
I have just started playing player career mode (Ps4) and there's some new features in it. The biggest one is we can finally create a LW and RW and start the game
on the bench. Those two are biggest additions i've noticed so far.
Career mode was given as much attention as the developers gave it
I just booted up the old 360 for single player FIFA and played FIFA 15. First match I played the ball didn't render, so I couldn't see what I was supposed to kick. That
game was updated so much and that is the first time I played the game in years...and the ball just doesn't exist.
FIFA isn't a sports league.
Yeah honestly they should put the sport aspect on the backburner and just let me play as Blatter and take brides, embezzle, decide were to build stadiums, If we
should use slaves or not, Etc. Would make for a neat management game.
Tell me you’re American without telling me you’re American
[removed]
i wish they made Volta and career mode more fun, I'm only gonna get this year's edition cadue the AI is far better that was my biggest gripe last year
I reached that stage a few years ago.

Paying for EA Access is a good alternative I find. Its £20 for a year, and you get a 10 hour trial of FIFA with it (enough for 30 games or so.. plenty to scratch those
FIFA urges which come around from time to time).

Then the latest FIFA will become available to play for free around May, and you can play as much as you want, if you want.

Plus you also get all the Battlefield/Star War games with it, and a bunch of others. They're not available for free at release (other than the 10 hour trial), but will be
added within a year or so, so it works great if you don't need to play them on release.
This is basically every sports game. I ignore the MTX and have a good time.
I get that but what I don't get is how people can't just play fut without using the micro transactions? I've played it on and off since the first rendition of fut and have
never spent a dime while having plenty of if not more fun? It's a weird take I find that people need to have the very best players or they think they're getting jipped,
personally I find the slow build the most satisfying way to play fut.
I agree with your point, but it is Eurogamer's (and every other VG News outlet) job to review games. Surely an accurate negative review is better than just leaving it,
or a giving an okay/positive review just because it doesn't matter anyways. I just think there's no way for gaming news outlets to win on subjects like this
No more criticism for anything, ever again. Either it's for you or "ignore it and move on."
> casual sports gamers are a giant market and they're never going to hear or listen all the cries of reddit posts or gaming news articles/reviews like this

There's also people like me who are not casual gamers who also don't care about this shit. I play everything, and I still play some sports games for periods of time
as a quick way to just zone out and destress. Similar to how I'll play multiplayer shooters. They a fun way to spend an hour or two on a weeknight.

I don't care about the monetization, because I don't engage with it. And I don't care to listen to so many redditors get a hard on over it every year it releases
because they also don't really care. They're not playing it, and wouldn't play it without the monetization, they just want to have an easy post for karma and feel like
they're internet successful. I imagine the video game sites that make these same tired articles every year rationalize that they're doing it to "save the kids" from
gambling, but really they just know it will bring mob traffic and ad revenue.
The gameplay is actually being viewed by the community as the best in years, and this fact is just an afterthought in this guy's "review". This is just a moral stance
against loot boxes and not a review of the new FIFA game.
> casual sports gamers are a giant market and they're never going to hear or listen all the cries of reddit posts or gaming news articles/reviews like this.

There's also people like me that are pretty into games and enjoy sports game and just don't care about reddit's outrage of FUT. I don't play FUT, I just want to play
a couple of seasons as my preferred club, which I will do pretty much entirely offline.
Reddit has an obsession with less popular games in the same genre "winning" for example CoD Vs Battlefield
This. I know lootboxes suck, but I buy the game. As does everyone I know. Not just the FUT crowd but people like me for the following reasons -

- Booting up fifa to thrash opposition after the team you support lost irl in football. Much needed release.
- Having friends over and playing against each other. Isn't a good substitute for playing actual football but scratches the itch.
- Doing things in FIFA that I wish I had to skill to do on the pitch.

Ultimately, just like the sport, this game is part of the culture. Maybe not so much in North America but certainly here in Europe.
What a weird defeatist take. If they hate the monetization they should make that clear.
Yea, Eurogamer should just ignore it because "it doesn't matter anyway" lol. If the review isn't for you then maybe take your own advice and ignore it and move on.
People will complain whatever they write. If they write about gameplay and ignore the monetisation issues people will complain about that. Now they write about the
monetisation issue and people still complain.

People just want to complain.
Someone needs to talk about it though, and I'm glad that Eurogamer is.

The more publications that put a spotlight at how scummy some of the practices, the more of a chance developers actually make a change.
Agreed. I've been buying FIFA games since 2003. I buy FIFA because I love football, and I want to play a football sim with my friends. And if you love football,
there's really nothing else that comes close.

Football sims have long hit a developmental plateau, I realize. At this point I'm not sure what they could really do to improve things. I'm not sure I'd really care for
career mode changes; gameplay changes are likely as likely to alienate players as they are to attract players, so I understand the conservatism (part of what I love
about FIFA is how I've essentially played the same way I have since I was 10). I wish FIFA was just a free game with a season pass, but that's not the monetization
system they went with.
You say that but this year is the first year that I know at least 8 people (my whole pro clubs team including me) just aren't bothering with it since there are little to no
improvements. Same old game repackaged with a tweak that I've been buying since the beginning of time
I mean, “morally bankrupt monetisation” describes much of contemporary football pretty well, so maybe EA Sport is just trying to reflect that in their execution of
FUT?

> 1. doesn't want to give Eurogamer a click

WHat's wrong with Eurogamer?
[removed]
If this was a rated R game for adults I would agree with you, but kids are one of the main demographics that plays FIFA and EA is basically introducing children to
the wonders of gambling addiction.
I totally agree with you, although they certainly use features very close to gambling. I‘d like to see other countries forbidding pay to win like Belgium did
Is the journalist in question wrong? The monetization practices are pretty abhorrent.
You can play online friendlies by inviting your friends. It sets up a 5-game season and keeps going like that. I only play career mode and that one. I believe there's
an online seasons that's more in depth as well but haven't tried it.
Online seasons is what you're looking for. It's a competitive online mode (vs randoms) where you progress through divisions based on how you perform. No
microtransacions, lootboxes etc. You just choose any real-life team and play with them. It's good fun.


Edit: sorry just realised you said non-ranked friendly. Online seasons is way less competitive than FUT, but I wouldn't class it as a friendly game. I'm pretty sure
there is the option to just play friendlies vs randoms but not 100% sure
If you just want to play virtual football against the computer or a friend and you don't care too much about licenses, PES is better than Fifa imo. It does have it's own
microtransaction nonsense just like Fifa does though and I'm sure this new f2p game will be no different.
You don't have to buy lootboxes in Fifa, they're just in the FUT mode. All the other modes (career mode, online seasons, volta, pro clubs etc) don't have
microtransactions or lootboxes and they're all just as much, if not more, fun as FUT
pes is trash I was gonna try it out this year but they've made some idiotic decisions. I'd recommend buying fifa in a few months when it's mad cheaper. FUT is
honestly a mixed bag i played a lot this year cause of the pandemic and not having anything else to do and I'm definitely not gonna pick it up again for a while.

but the other game modes are great especially if you're playing with friends
Your point has been discussed to hell and back so if you actually cared you would know the answer to that already. For one it's physical goods that don't get
worthless since you can resell. Others simply think magic and pokemon have gotten away with it to long
Spot on, I wonder if they wouldn't make even more money if FUT went free to play like Warzone. Though I'm sure they have a squadron of accountants who've
figured out exactly how to wring the optimum amount of money out of people
Let's hope efootball can be the savior we've been waiting for
Listen I play enough games with ranking systems. Fifa has got one of the worst ranked experiences of any game I played
Can you still not change your position once you've created your player? Was always a baffling decision. Even if it's a closely related position, but it always seems
weird how rigid it was.

Can you also comment on the in-game announcers? Are they better than last year? It was a huge drop in quality from moving on from Tyler and Smith, but it makes
sense why they'd want to switch. But the quality was simply lacking. I'm really hoping they added more lines in order to cover more scenarios. I'm mostly offline
myself as well, except for Seasons. So I'm never in a rush to get it full price when it'll be 50% off by the holidays.

>
>It's interesting to see reviews focused heavily on FUT and the microtransactions when I'm not affected by it as an offline player. And when I do casually venture
online it has never bothered me to ignore all of that shit.

I feel like I'm the only singleplayer fifa player. Literally everything is about FUT.
I’m also an offline player myself, I agree with you about gameplay, definitely a slight change from what I was able to experience from the free 10 hours trial, I did find
myself having to come with more challenging plays to score a goal versus FIFA 21 in World Class difficulty (might be of course subjective to the match itself, my
skill, etc, but just saying).

During your time playing, have you noticed that as well in terms of gameplay / AI difficulty?
>It's interesting to see reviews focused heavily on FUT and the microtransactions

Because it's a controversial hot topic and helps drive clicks.

Also as far as i'm aware ever since sports games of all varieties have started to adopt the FUT model pretty much all of their other modes have suffered immensely
due to cash generators obviously being the focus of these studios.

So if anything it's in your best interest to not just handwave modes like FUT away just because you don't play them or can ignore the allure of the mtx. Because in
the end you're still getting a worse product as 95% of the actual work every year is going into FUT, not other game modes. Because FUT prints money and other
modes don't print nearly as much.
Last one I have is 19. Is there more to career mode than then?
I haven’t played a fifa game for a while, but the nfl games were fine as long as you didn’t have a need to play online. However I do think there’s a principal the thing.
I’m all for dlc and buying skins or cosmetics, but you shouldn’t have to pay to be competitive.
They called it a review though, so I'd expect at least some information about the Career mode.

I fully support articles being written about the state of FUT and ignoring Career, but a review should have details about both.
This isn't true at all. I'll admit I only played last years version because I was gifted it. So I don't know what it was like the couple of years prior, but career mode was
pretty good with a lot of improvements since last time I bought it in 2018(I think).
I'm skeptical you've actually played the most recent Fifa. They made quite a few changes and additions to career mode. The manager experience is the best it's
been in awhile for Fifa 21.
It's not just abandoning it, it's intentionally making it worse, there's features in fifa 2007 career mode that give it more depth than the current iteration.
Go easy on the Americans it's a growing market.
Excuse the ignorance, but what exactly is a 'sports league' anyway? Is that like an American thing?
Ah right, it's just a governing body of sports leagues. I don't give a shit one way or the other.
I’ll take a bride!
Like Football Manager only that you start up as a small fish in your country's federation and work your way the corruption ladder of Fifa.
Football Administrator Simulator.
This is actually a pretty awesome concept for a satirical take on the FIFA franchise. The narrative framing is pretty solid and I think you could actually build a real
game around those ideas.
You joke but it would be cool to have a football manager game that included the more seedy aspects involved with international football

IIRC there used to be one where players could sometimes headbutt the referee but that's not in modern FM games lol
[removed]
When volta and career mode make them a billion a year in microtransactions like fut does then they'll make them fun.
The problem is I'm also burned out, I've played like 15,000 online games of fifa, I don't want to touch the game anymore unless it's something groundbreaking which
I know just isn't the case.
And buy like every third iteration of it as soon as it costs $15
This is the part people don't seem to realise. You don't have to spend money on MTX.
 some people don't have time to treat it as a job
Thought it was pretty accurate how would you describe a football game for kids with real money gambling mode?
I fully agree, I don’t want it to come off like I think the review is pointless or anything. These games are MTX farms that exploit fans and it’s truly depressing to see,
so I am glad that publications are taking it seriously and being loud about it.

But, like I tried to say, sometimes it just feels like wasted breath when talking about it. This is unrelated to the article, but it always feels like actively trying to spread
awareness about it does nothing, because the average person who buys FIFA isn’t a gamer, and they’ll never see these reviews or articles. They probably don’t
even know what Eurogamer even is. Their consoles are FIFA machines and nothing more.

I hope people keep making reviews like this in the vague hopes that someday it might change and finally hit, but the depressing reality is that it won’t matter. FIFA
22 will go on to break records in sales once again, and FUT will draw in billions in MTX regardless. You’d basically have to kill football in order to actually affect
FIFA.
Again it *really* doesn’t actually matter or affect Fifa. I bought Fifa19/20/21 despite them having terrible ratings. I’ll buy Fifa22 as well.

I think reviewers should just not bother rating Fifa because they cannot possibly change the outcome and EA can simply ignore the ratings because 1) they still
make an absolute killing and 2) they aren’t going for GOTY or any awards for these titles.

Edit: i should note that I hate FUT, and i hate loot-boxes. But there is no other football/soccer game that is as *AAA* as Fifa. I love career mode.
eFootball is just so meh with all the clone faces, lack of licensed teams, kits and stadiums crappy font and UI, the new eFootball just looks tragic. So Fifa is really
my only option.
This review talks a *lot* about the gameplay and its changes. (There's 8+ long paragraphs focusing on it.) He just seems more ambivalent about it then you are,
though there's still mostly praise for it.
When i was kid and in my teens (ps 1 and ps2 era) i remember Pro Evolution being the only King, we literally mocked Fifa, like who the hell could buy and play that
shit in comparison with Pro.

Like everyone who had console had Pro Evolution, playing against friends, or our summer job, we played Pro Evolution our entire shifts. How things changed now
with Fifa being the only King
FIFA’s a big part of the culture here in the U.S. as well, at least in high school and college. Me and my friends would regularly have FIFA tournaments, and
everyone played even if they weren’t the biggest fans of the sport. I think sporting games in general are just hugely popular and FIFA fits right in.

As for the reasons you put down for buying it, I’m right there with you. My cousin plays for FUT, but I play for all of the reasons you put down. It just scratches a
certain itch and it’s hard to put it down.

One thing I’d add is being able to manage your team from the ground up with developing academy prospects and signing new players. It’s just addicting, and no
mtx needed.
> this game is part of the culture.

You can say that again. Right down to the obsession with gambling and trying to fleece fans for as much money as possible. Football is rotten to the core at this
point and I say this as a fan of almost 30 years. No game had quite managed to capture the sheer level of greed in the sport as well as Fifa.
Dude no offence but your reasons are pretty much basic for most people when it comes to sports games or video games in general. It’s not like I ever want to play
Office Simulator so I can do exactly what I do at work well. I want to do things in a game where I can’t do them in real life. At least offer up rational that isn’t so
generic cuz ya people like to play sports games for most of the reasons you mentioned but there are also other reason that are probably more nuanced as to why
you play. But you sort of just stated the obvious points for most everyone.
A terrible company basically owns a sport and culture thats meaningful to you. I feel bad more than anything.
But why are you buying the new game if it's the same as the one from last year? Surely you bought the game the previous year, so why get the same thing again?
Just for updated rosters or something?
why not just... keep the old game? Why do you need to keep feeding a game that's actively driving kids to gamble?
> I know lootboxes suck, but I buy the game

A succinct description of the problem and reason we're in this mess.
It is the poster child of "games as a service" which EA is remarkably good at (and if you want price gouging Gacha, try FGO, or don't)
Eurogamer are openly very pro-LGBT, and apparently some Right-Wing "Gamer" Snowflakes find that difficult to deal with.

I've seen them criticised before for being too "Political", so that would be my guess.
[removed]
[removed]
Pay to win isn’t gambling. But loot boxes are.
Monetization in past FIFA was abhorrent, but it's easy to shit on it.

A lot of people I know played FIFA 21 and they said that even without spending money you could get a good squad. I think they are tuning it.

Now, imagine being a developer and working on FIFA and imagine, every year, reading petty articles about the game you helped to create written by people who
clearly don't care about monetization. These journalists only care about appealing to a broad audience.

Where were they when EA presented his "EA Originals" program or "the friend's pass" for It Takes Two?
Yeah that's what I thought and it's not what I'm looking for in FIFA. I really hate that they got rid of match making for unranked friendlies. FIFA was my favorite
game for years and that was the main mode I'd play all night with randoms just having a good time.

The seasons mode basically made every online game be ranked so you only see the same teams over and over. Back in the day you could have unranked
matches and you'd be able to play with lower league teams or mess around with different formations/starters since the games were throw away.
Yeah the online seasons are basically just ranked matches and it got stale really quick. There were only so many times I could watch Robben/Ronaldo cut inside
and shoot because everyone picked Bayern/Madrid. When every game counts no one wants to play a friendly with K-League or MLS teams for fun.
Konami have stepped the monetisation up a gear with eFootball

https://youtu.be/LElgV3iyPSU
Ability to resell doesn't seem like much of an argument against addictive preying. Especially when 99.99% of cards end up in the trash anyway
The market for sports games is rather small to be honest, so they end up as a de facto monopoly
Nah, mate. We know Fifa has been shitty for a long time but thats the reality of a lot of games with a ranking system. "High level player create a new account to
beat newbies".
> Can you still not change your position once you've created your player?

I'm not sure on this, I haven't checked into for Fifa 22.

> Can you also comment on the in-game announcers? Are they better than last year?

I've only played a handful of games as it just came out yesterday, so again, I don't think I care fairly judge it yet. Sorry I didn't exactly answer either question, I just
need more time with it to know.
You can change your players position
Since 19 there have been a number of updates to the mode. This year the only big addition was Create a Club. Off the top of my head the past couple years have
added:

* Dynamic player potential was added, so players are not locked into whatever number they have initially
* Match simulation engine, so you can live sim and jump in the match at any point
* Player training has added depth with activites, schedules, etc
* You can change players positions
* You can train players in specific roles like making a winger more of an inside forward for example
* They've add a "match sharpness" system which basically is meant to represent if the player is match ready and if so they have increased attributes. This is mostly
used to encourage training and rotating a squad.
* Loan to buys added for transfers. They also added settings so you can determine how difficult and often transfers are.
* They've refined the yearly objectives quite a bit
* They fixed some of the old simulation problems around club records
* Added a bunch of new cutscenes, pre and post match interviews
* Small UI and presentation changes
Last year's career mode had quite a lot of new features. Been a while since I played but worth looking up FIFA 21 career mode if you're interested
The people this review is for aren't buying the game anyway, they just want fuel to hate.
I’ve played FIFA21 on the EA pass, I might not have dwelled deep enough into it because I didn’t get into this mood this year yet, but i’ll definitely check it out!!
We have the NCAA, so superfluous governing bodies fucking with sports is actually something we're pretty familiar with
I hope it’s not growing - I tune into some premier league games every so often and I’m bored to tears every time
The "English Premier League" is a sports league.
The Bundes**liga** is a sports league.

FIFA is the worldwide governing federation for football (soccer).
In SA they call it a Division, I think. A league is a group of teams that play against each other. For instance in America the National Football League (NFL) there are
32 American Football teams that compete against each other. There are also minor/college leagues.

American sports don’t really do promotion/relegation like the UK (which is admittedly the extent of my knowledge when it comes to non-US sports).
Not quite but you're getting closer.
Yep. No need to buy every year.
You don't need to. I played a few hours and have managed to get an ok all gold, above 80 rated team with very little effort.
Sure, but you only do that if you want all the very best/promo cards. Do you need all that to enjoy it? Well in my opinion you shouldn't. I used to play a game or two
a night, no issue and still had more than enough to play against teams full of 90+ players.
I don't fully understand if you're agreeing with me or asking me, because I also think EG's review was accurate.
I think a genuine, strict reform of Gambling laws in Europe and the US could either kill or completely change fifa, but other than that you're absolutely right.
I see your point absolutely, but I disagree. In terms of gameplay and whatnot, reviews of fifa are still somewhat informative. Stuff like, how's the new Career Mode
changes, if it's buggy, how good (whatever story mode they have in it now) is. They're all still relevant things to review that people will want to know. I know plenty
of people who buy fifa for the career mode, and were excited to see how the new stuff was. For those kinda cases, I think reviews still serve a purpose
Why did you keep upgrading, if not for FUT?
You realise the fact that everyone does exactly what you are doing is the reason they don't make any efforts, they can't tweek the gameplay, MAYBE fix a few bugs
and copy/paste the rest, upload the new roster carry on as normal

At this point fifa should be a once per platform game and just charge like £10 a year for the slight upgrades and roster changes they make.


I bet you the fifa 20 and 22 logos are still visible somewhere in the stadiums again
Did this article read to you as "it's the best FIFA in years" or "it's another shitty FIFA because loot boxes suck?"

It's also disingenuous to review the game this early. The game is largely defined by the competitive rivals and weekend league system which nobody has
experienced a cycle of yet.
You are right, nothing insightful in there, common knowledge. But I have sat through countless Reddit threads about FIFA with commenters expressing bafflement
that this game is popular. So posted this.
The majority of people have absolutely zero interest in beating up Nordic gods, throwing Hadoukens, or whatever bullshit you so in games. But they do like football.
So naturally people want to play football in some form.
> But why are you buying the new game if it's the same as the one from last year?

It's not. It's just something that people who never play the game repeat all the time. The game engine is the same, and the core gameplay is very much the same
as well, but there are improvements/differences and anyone who played the game will tell you each iteration is indeed a different game.
Not to defend the game at all, but for the types of people who play these games a all year long, $60 a year for a 100\~ or so hours of gameplay isn't too bad at the
end of the day.
Yep, I need to play with the latest signings my club made this summer. And whatever tweaks they do to the gameplay is a bonus. Ultimately it is a one time
purchase which I'll be playing year long. It isn't a single player game which is done and dusted after 20 or 50 hours of gameplay.
> But why are you buying the new game if it's the same as the one from last year?

It’s not. The only people who says this are those that parrot it from other people who also doesn’t play the game

There are changes to the physics engine with each generation that heavily impacts how the game is played. For better or for worse.
I'm going to get this year's, mostly because my mum randomly saw a poster in town and asked if I want it for Christmas. That being said I got a ps5 so I probably
would have bought this year's anyway for the graphics/engine.

The rosters are a big deal for a lot of people. I still play '18 almost weekly but a lot of players have come through the ranks since then and they're not in the
game/they're completely useless. It will be nice to play with the likes of Greenwood for Man Utd etc.
It's essentially a "new patch" if you want to think of it that way. Everyone moves onto the next patch, so if you want to play with anyone at all you have to move on
with the crowd.
for updated squads, I pretty used to much buy them every 3/4 years to play with friends but if you're playing other modes as a sports fans having updated squads is
important
Believe it or not but the updated squads are a big draw and the game isn't a 1/1 copy of the previous game* like reddit would make you believe, there are gameplay
changes.

*Unless you're playing on Switch because lol
Not at all. People generally point to lootboxes being the problem and thus the focus on FUT, so a person who doesn't interact with that is not part of the problem.
we're in this mess because the people because of the people who are into FUT that spend orders of magnitude more on that mode than what they actually pay to
buy the game in the first place. people who pay $60 for the game and never touch FUT don't even register compared to the whales who buy the game and then
spend hundreds or thousands on FUT.
[removed]
[removed]
You’re right that’s what I wanted to say
They weren't though. I remember someone posted an article doing the math on here and you had to spend something like 2800+ hours of playing to get one of the
very top cards (I haven't played since like 2018 so I don't remember the rarities or whatever).

Well, it's a good thing you know what these journalists actually care about but the developers get compensated for their work and are free to work on other games,
no? It's not like they are forced to work on Fifa.

Also, those two things have absolutely nothing to do with Fifa's monetization. Not really sure why you brought it up.
Yeah fair enough, I'd argue that the games don't really "count" though as there's not really any rewards or anything on the line like there is in FUT, it's a much more
casual mode. But yeah I know what you mean about people picking the same teams, although I've had loads of games where I've picked random shit teams and
come up against others who are playing with a Bundesliga 2 team or something like that. You can still have fun with it
Damn. Never thought Konami would go the mtx route.
Not really true... Also what is up with that guy's opinion that "selling gamemodes in a free-to-play game is unacceptable"? Why?

What Konami has done with eFootball is really interesting, in my opinion. Before, you had to pay $60 every year to play MyClub (the microtransaction mode) which
still had ways to pay real money for the chance of better players. The $60 also gave you access to the singleplayer season modes Master League and Become a
Legend (BAL).

For the past few years, after a month or two Konami would release PES Lite, which was essentially the demo with free access to MyClub. PES demos usually have
around 10 licenced teams and an online and offline exhibition mode.

Now they have flipped it. They are releasing what is essentially PES Lite first, for free. If players want to play Master League they can pay however much it costs (I
think I heard around $30), and Master League access will carry across seasons. I can't find a source for this but I swear I heard it on a video.

The only way they are monetising it more is the battle pass system. Preordering for bonus coins and MTX has been a thing for years in all sports games, and it isn't
new for PES either. If you plan to play MyClub and spend money on it, the preorder bonus would probably be worth it.

So yeah... I don't see how removing the $60 barrier of entry and replacing that with a cheaper, optional Master League is worse. If EA did this, the FIFA community
would praise them like crazy because the majority of them don't give a shit about the career mode.
Why link to a youngyea video ?

The guy has basically made a career out of spending 5 minutes reading an article and then spending 5 minutes going "fuck EA/Konami/Activision they're too
greedy right guys"

I'd rather you linked to something tangible rather than that rubbish.
The difference is the company actively throws all your cards into the trash every year and you have to start from 0 again.

Just imagine the MTG company coming to your house and shredding all your cards every year.
Fifa makes more money than almost every game out there.
It doesnt happen to this degree in CS, LOL, Stacraft, AOE... just to name a few you are strictly disregarding facts ...
No worries, was just taking the opportunity to ask.
Just to be clear, you mean they've added it in 22, or I'm an idiot and it's always been a thing? Lol I definitely looked everywhere
Awesome thanks for such a detailed answer.

How in depth is the create a club/where do the rosters from those come from if you know?
Cool cool. Thanks.
What is it with people whining because soccer exists? I don’t watch basketball, but I don’t pop into threads where it’s mentioned to cry about it.

Just watch another sport.
go watch NFL where the ball is only in play for 12 minutes average over a 3 hour game. big fun!
There’s other leagues you know
Well that's too bad for you. It's growing.
Can I get a hint?
Like I said, I don't give a shit what FIFA is.
You and I definitely approach the game the same way, I think most people just can't handle not having overpowered squads. Usually it's when I got put up against a
low quality team that I had the hardest time because those guys knew how to play well regardless of players.
You're cheerleading hard here, huh?

There's nothing "disingenuous" about reviewing a game a few days before it releases, especially since the text clearly acknowledges that the experience will change
over time. This is a review of the day one product and it's obvious about that.

And it read to me like the reviewer had mixed feelings on the game:
>"And so we come to the question I've pondered for so long about FIFA: how to judge a game that has a lot that's decent but also this other bit that's morally
reprehensible? I play a lot of FIFA, and with good reason. I enjoy it, in a grumpy sort of way. Reporting on all the good, bad and ugly FIFA has to offer has been a
fascinating part of my job over the last decade. If you're only in it for Career Mode, for example, FIFA 22 is a good shout. If you only play Volta (there must be
someone!) then there's nothing particularly offensive about the game. But context is king. Ultimate Team cannot be ignored."

That all seems extremely balanced to me, and if anything your *"it's another shitty FIFA because loot boxes suck"* misrepresentation of the review is the actual
disingenuousness here.
Ya fair enough and I didn’t exactly want that to come off as curt or facetious but more or less just matter of factly but at least you understand.
Ya I get it, it’s just his rationals we’re painfully obvious. He even admitted as much in his response to me. That’s all I was trying to say. He could’ve also added in
they are fun too and made it even more obvious as to reasons why people play these games.
Same shit with the CoD series. You have people claiming CoD is exactly the same game since forever, and you have CoD fans that have a mental breakdown at
every small change.
as someone who bought a bunch of FIFAs including consecutive ones, I wouldn't call it a different game at all. the differences between games are just as big as
usual big patches in other games bring. there's just occasional differences such as... I can't recall but maybe FIFA17 or 18? when they switched to the new engine.
if they brought out a big content patch once a year it would result in the exact same content as between one FIFA and the next.
Yeah exactly ! I buy fifa but also play a lot of other games as well. I get fifa cause I know what it will offer me and it will be worth my money with the time I spend on
it unlike some story games which is just beat and delete for me. It provide casual fun with friends or if someone is over while also giving me fun with FUT( I don’t
spent real money on packs ) . The core gameplay is the same but they make enough changes each year to make it feel completely different
Sure, it’s not 100% the same as the previous game, but ultimately they’re all small balancing tweaks, aren’t they? One year pace is super important, the next year
it’s de-emphasized. Like, if I play 3 consecutive matches in 19/20/21, I don’t think I could definitively say that the new one is objectively the best, just that it’s
different. And as a casual, social FIFA player, I don’t see why I should care if a new one releases.
You can play all the content for $60? The article made it seem like there was MTX and loot boxes and you got more content and help if you paid more money.
I remember with the older FIFAs, you could update the squads manually for offline play. Is that no longer possible?
But the roster update is basically a csv file, they could update it with a 2mb patch.

They only reason they don't is because people keep buying the new game every year,

They could change a little for the roster update and gameplay tweakez every year but as long as they keep making billions for a copy paste job, nothing will change
[removed]
Please read our [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules), specifically Rule #3.2 regarding low-effort comments
Have you some proof for that 2800+ hours thing? No one is talking about that (at least, I didn't read anything about that).

Maybe they are working on FIFA because they like it? Because they care about it?

Journalists like this talk shit about greedy EA but when EA does positive things? They disappear. Because talking about EA Originals does not get you as many
clicks as talking shit about the new FIFA. to this article and articles like this.

Journalists like this talk shit about greedy EA but when EA does positive things? They disappear. Because talking about EA Originals does not get you as much
clicks as talking shit about the new FIFA.
I might give it another shot because honestly I've missed FIFA but it feels weird paying for it and not touching FUT which is obviously where the core of the content
is.
Then you haven't seen Metal Gear Survive. 5 dollars just for an extra save slot.
They've had microtransactions in PES since 2014.
And how many soccer games do you know of?
Oh I’m not sure if it was there last year but you definitely can in 22
I got you on part of this, after playing a few hours last night. I only play manager career, ever.

So you make a club. It makes you choose your league, then you choose the team to replace. In my case I chose Oldham Athletic (no offense, but I just went for
whoever was bottom of League 2 as of last night lol). You then pick (not make, pick from a set list) your club crest. You can customize one out of I think 10 colors
for your crest (all other colors are relative to the one you chose, so not much room to customize your badge at all, and 95% of them are painfully generic).

Then you create a home and an away kit. It doesn't tie you go any colors so you can do whatever here. My home kit was white/grey/blue and away was purple/red.
There are a lot of different kits to pick from, and you get a primary/secondary/tertiary color, as well as a name/number color. So lots of room to work with there. No
shirt sponsor though, so kind of weird with a blank shirt front, unless that comes later (doubt). Also, you get like 25 colors for the lot, bit only 10 or so for the badge.
They don't give you a wheel which is really frustrating.

Then you pick your stadium from a list of like 20. Then you choose how you want your pitch to look (can choose like 8 grass cut patterns, 6 or so shades of green
for the pitch, and for some reason you can make the lines all manner of different colors, aside from white.

Then you can choose the color of the stadium, the seats, and the net in goal.

Then you tell it how good your players are (.5 star, 1 star, 1.5, 2, etc) and the average age, and it will generate a whole random roster for you based on that.

Hopefully that answers your Qs

Don't do FIFA 21. There is an annoying bug that makes all gens and regens (basically every player the game creates) come with stupid, skinny noodle arms. No
matter what their build is, or if they're muscular or skinny, they will have comically thin arms that take up about 1/3 the space of the sleeve hole. And when it goes
close-up on them in the game, it looks like some weird Matritx-y shit is happening on their arms. Basically the only fix to make them not look stupid was to give
them long sleeves (shirt or under shirt). Then it would show their actual arm size.

Really frustrating when you're like 8 years deep in career mode and everyone is looking like they never workout.
Just say you don't understand American football, it's less wordy.
Apologies, I’m more of a basketball guy
It’s still incredibly boring
It'd be more accurate to say they're the governing body of their many members, who are also governing bodies, who organise their own leagues. They also have a
large say when it comes to changes or additions to the laws of the game, organising and choosing the host nation for the World Cup and just trying to grow the
game.

And they're filled with corrupt bastards who only care about lining their pockets. Human rights and "the good of the game" be damned.
Leagues are organised by the national association. The FA for example.

National associations group together by continent and have their own continental competitions that clubs participate in from all those national associations. UEFA
for example.

Then there is an association of all of the continental administrations. This is FIFA.
Why comment in the first place then
Do you really need someone to tell you that the game is fun?

You cant make that leap yourself?
Lol that's one single mode in the game.

A single, separate, multiplayer mode, for stats against opponents, so not even actual content.

People continually mad about things they don't understand.
There's only one mode (FUT) that involves microtransactions. The rest of the game (career mode, online seasons, pro clubs, volta etc) has literally no
microtransactions whatsoever. Even in FUT you don't have to spend anything on microtransactions. I've played FIFA for about 15 years now and literally never
spent a penny apart from buying the game and I've been just fine. Not that I'm defending EA here, FUT lootboxes are definitely predatory for those who don't have
any willpower and I'd prefer if they weren't there, but they're by no means necessary to enjoy the game
I'm honestly not sure but a lot changes in a year besides players moving. Some have gotten better or worse, young players who don't exist in last year's game will
need to be created, some clubs got relegated or promoted, new teams and stadiums have been added, player face scans have been updated, the latest kit and ball
designs are in etc.

These things make all the difference if you're into the sport.
Ok thanks for confirming.
Perfect answer. Thanks a ton. I’m just sitting here laughing because that sounds like the create a team from like madden 2006
Right? I'd rather see 4 hours of guys swinging a ball for 9 innings, such a huge rush of excitement and thrill
Like the UN, but without the corruption. Hang on a second..
Because I am a gamer and FIFA 22 is a game. I've also not been living under a rock and know about the corruption in FIFA. So my comment seemed to be a
humorous way of connecting them.

Who pissed in your Wheaties this morning?
Look man I’m not sure you’re following the flow of the conversation properly. The dude I responded to responded to a comment asking why people play the fifa
games. He gave the most obvious answers that are generic at best. Which is why I made my comment. Why not follow the flow of the conversation before you
come at me? As I said the person I responded to even admitted his answers were generic and obvious so what’s your deal dude?
Lot of words when a simple "no" would've accurately answered the question.
I will say my particular annoyances:

only 25 colors??? Why no wheel?

Why can't I create the badge? It's offline, who cares.

Why can't I have a third kit?

Why is there a character limit of like 15 for the whole club name when you have plenty of clubs already in the game exceeding that character limit?

Why does the badge not change colors based on your kit's primary/secondary/tertiary colors? I make my purple and red kit and the badge is still blue looking all
weird.

So yeah it kinda sucks, but it's also better than career mode last year, so it's something.

And the game itself has improved as well. It moves faster so I'm going to have to fuck with the sliders on that, but all the movements are more realistic. A ball went
off the keepers hand, bounced forward, and due to spin it bounced backwards and rolled into the goal. I've been playing FIFA since 14, and that is the first time I've
seen natural looking ball physics like that. And the way players battle for 50/50 balls looks more authentic. It doesn't really look like players being sucked into
premade gif movements now, which has been "The EA Special" for what, decades?

I think it's the best one in years, but that's definitely not to say it's perfect. Still has plenty to complain about
Hey now, swingball kicks ass
“swinging a ball”
Weird thing to ask since you seem quite agitated and I’m just asking a simple question
No need to be a dick. I was just explaining how it works to someone who clearly hasn't played the game before
Agitated? I made a joke and it seems to have gotten your panties in a twist. Methinks you're the one that's agitated.
Sssshhh is okay, don cri. Go have some unseasoned food

[Kleavor is an evolved form of Scyther apparently](https://twitter.com/bulbagarden/status/1442839750948360196?s=21)

Curious about the story it’s clear there are characters baring strong resemblance to characters from gen 4, there are two that look a lot like Marley and Mars in this
video and last time there was a woman that looked like Female Cyrus. Curious if there will be a link
I appreciate more and more with every trailer that GF is trying something new. This one especially did it for me.

But good lord why can't it look even half way as good as your average first party switch game.
Did anti aliasing kill Miyamoto's mom or something? Why are there so many jaggies in every single Nintendo game?
I have to give Gamefreak credit for actually trying something new when they probably didn't have to (just going off sales).

But the game *looks so cheap*. Sure, there are clear hardware limitations, but look at what BotW pulled off with good optimisation and art direction. This is honestly
in such a sorry state that it sort of looks like a well made fan project in Unity.

How is this happening? I get that GF isn't experienced here but surely they have nigh-on-unlimited resources. They could outsource anything. There is no good
reason the game should look this shoddy.

There are poorly hidden repeating textures everywhere. The texture quality itself is abysmal. There is so little geometry in the terrain that it looks like an alpha
product in places. *And this is what they're revealing in the trailers*.

It's a shame but it's also just very interesting. Like what the fuck is happening at Gamefreak?
So you do a boss fight and then a regular pokemon battle once its health is low enough?

Also that first part where it just shows the player dodging and throwing things at it looks really bad. There is no way it can be that bland or else what is the point of
this type of battle.

EDIT: After looking at the trailer again I realized that the world itself looks like a world in No Man Sky. Specifically when the character flys under the rock bridge the
texture and coloring looks exaclty like one.
I want to be excited, but these trailers really aren't doing it for me.

Besides the fact that the game just looks really *rough*, I'm having a hard time grasping what the actual gameplay loop will be besides catching Pokemon over and
over again. The boss battles just seem like you're rolling around throwing stuff at it until it becomes a normal Pokemon battle.
I can never get over how Pokémon just exists in its own little corner with its own set of (sub)standards. I mean normally that'd be fine, the disorienting thing is how
the size of that little corner is at least 10x as big as you'd think it would be.
It's really weird to me that there using things like customizable characters and photo mode (with no backgrounds) as selling points for a game coming out in 2022.
Like....can you imagine how big a deal it'll be when they add voice acting?!
Every time I see a post about this game I get excited because I've forgotten about it, then I get confused because the art style and graphics look straight out of an
early Wii title and I remember why I stopped following the development of the game. Aside from the awful graphics what is the gameplay here? Just catching
pokemon over and over?
Gee, wow, you can customize your outfit and take pictures of you and your Pokemon.

Like seriously, highlighting features nearly all games have had for decades in your promo material? Not a good omen.
So is there just this one small village with one main road? The game looks like a giant open world of mindless Pokémon hunting with the only signs of society being
a single small village. I love the idea of the game but it looks bad, empty, soulless, and shallow. I want some other villages or campsites, or something. Just
mindlessly hunting Pokémon in a massive bland open world makes me want to never play this.
It looks like a student project I would have seen in college. How can a game of this scale look so bad graphically.
i dont understand how this franchise keeps getting away with this. this game looks like it came out of 2006. hell, oblivion has better graphics than this.

and dont tell me its about the limitations of the switch; BOTW came out for switch in 2016 and looked better than this.
I’ve never been a big graphics guy in gaming. I appreciate good, high quality graphics, but I can have just as good a time with all the settings turned to low. That
being said, this doesn’t just look bad, it looks lazy. I appreciate GameFreak trying something new, but Pokémon is the most profitable franchise in the world, ever. It
should not look like a fan-made unity mock-up.
I know Japanese game trailers are stylistically different than American game trailers but… this doesn’t look good? I love the idea of a Monster Hunter-style
Pokémon game but I don’t think I’m picking this one up
Graphics legitimately look a decade and a half out of date. I’m all about great art style over cutting edge graphics but holy shit.
BOTW,Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition, Xenoblade Chronicles 2.

All open world games, came out way before this and still look way better than this. It’s embarrassing.

Still going to sell more than all of them and that’s why Gamefreak doesn’t care…
Man, I want to be really excited for this game, but as I'm playing through Monster Hunter Stories 2, I'm just not nearly as hyped as I could be. Stories seems to
scratch the itch I was hoping Pokemon would, and they typically do a good job of supporting MH games post release.

I hope they clean up the graphics and the game is solid, but as of right now, I'm just not that excited about this game.
God damn do those graphics look dated as hell. I don't know how to describe it but everything looks so static. Like the clothes/hair aren't flowing, the Pokémon
don't have fur or anything, and the environment looks god awful. The new mechanics look like a breath of fresh air, but everything else looks so bad.
The visuals in this game -- especially the game world -- are SO UGLY I cannot get over it.

I don't need every game to be visually beautiful, and certainly they don't need to push the limits of 3D graphics. But if you are going to make an open world game,
the world itself should feel like a rich, pretty, interesting place. Otherwise why bother exploring it?
2017: BOTW - [https://i.gyazo.com/8e02a864ac5ee248480e8eaac194036b.jpg](https://i.gyazo.com/8e02a864ac5ee248480e8eaac194036b.jpg)

Unreleased, current year POKEMON GAME - [https://i.gyazo.com/11c94727033cb67e04d30eddc56cd2f9.jpg]
(https://i.gyazo.com/11c94727033cb67e04d30eddc56cd2f9.jpg)

&#x200B;

Come the fuck on.
has anyone played MH rise??? i mean this is a joke lol from a graphics and gameplay perspective
The video production on this trailer is abysmal, the audio levels are all over the place, the texture and titles treatments look like they were made in imovie.

I cannot believe a company as big as pokemon let this promotional piece go out the door, and thats not even addressing the actual gameplay content which
likewise is looking terrible
As someone from the outside looking in- I don't own a switch (been interested) and haven't played pokemon since maybe B/W... This just looks **cheap as fuck**.
Good god. It comes across as almost insulting.
It genuinely looks like a free-to-play fan project of pokemon. It's just so empty, and all the repetitive sprites.
My excitement levels have basically completely flipped from what they first were when this and BDSP were announced. The more I see of Arceus the more I look
forward to it and the more I see of BDSP the less I do.
I dont mind the graphics that much, but I hope the gameplay is fun. It looks like they've removed trainer battles? and the pokemon catching mechanic seems to be
just throwing balls at pokemon. I dunno I'm really happy about the open world aspect but hope they dont stray too far.
While it doesn't *look* great, I'm really glad with the direction it's going and super excited to play it!
Is it just me or does the open world feel empty? Is there other footage out there that maybe shows buildings? more people?
As someone who does enjoy Pokemon but is completely bored of the usual formula this actually looks really cool. I’m glad they are changing it up finally. This trailer
definitely got me more hyped
Just out of curiosity, does anyone know why Nintendo doesn’t do any voice acting in games? It might sound odd, but I get lonely or feel lonely if I play a game for a
prolonged period of time that has human characters that don’t speak. I can’t explain it, but I could play a puzzle game indefinitely, but something about being
around mute humans for a long time makes me feel uncomfortable.
I’ve seen no one point it out but you can hear the player character audibly grunt a few times in the trailer. Beats me if that means the game is voice acted.
I was honestly intrigued after this was first revealed but each trailer (and this one especially) makes me less and less interested. The gameplay here looks utterly
boring. Throwing a ball and watching the same clunky, stiff animation over and over again? No thanks.

Gamefreak need to be shut down. Give up the Pokemon license and let someone competent take the reigns.
Looks abysmal. It’s not even a matter of letting people enjoy things, this is fucking dire.

No voice acting, the combat looks awful. Also who gives a fuck about dressing up a character, last I checked it’s a Pokemon game.
alright, with the way they've been parading the base form of the starters (which would make sense if the starters were new but they're not) makes me think they
have their own regional forms as well

also, god gave us cellphones

this level of tech isn't that surprising since pokemon had time travel technology circa 2000
It's almost 2022 and they cannot make not-ugly Pokemon game with that amount of money they get?
Gameplay seems fun but it's really disgusting how the game looks. Even with that textures quality and empty world the game lags even on gameplay. Whole game
looks like it's made by small indie company.

^edit. ^grammar
[removed]
New pokemon Kleavor isnt all that exciting competitively. Bug/Rock isnt a unique typing and unless its ability and stats are monstrous it might just end ip a worse
version of scizor and scyther.

Its trading a fire and flying weakness for a weakness to water and steel. Goes from being resistant to fighting to being normal effectiveness.

Could potentionally be given technician, whicu would be interesting with accelerock and rock tomb, if it has access.
 Looks fine. Not really sure why everyone acts like this game looks like Quest 64 or something. 90% of Nintendo games look like shit and people always defend
them and say "w-well their hardware is way underpowered!" but once it's a Pokemon game then GameFreak is just expected to be able to perform miracles lol.

EDIT: sorry, forgot we are supposed to unequivocally hate a game we haven't even played. It's absolutely impossible to love games that look like complete shit
which is why Skyward Sword, Breath of the Wild, and Fallout 3 received such poor scores.
What do people want out of a Pokemon game now-a-days?

I know a lot of people wanted Pokemon on the overworld. Well, okay, it doesn't look all that great does it? Just having random Electivires out on a snowy field.

I know some people wanted real-time combat. Well, this one is turn based, but it seems like there might be some real-time dodging elements. Good enough?

I know people like to shit on Gamefreak, and I'm 3s away from shitting on them myself, but you all don't seriously think they're going to get 800 different Pokemon
walking around and engaging with the world in a natural way, right? I get being the world's "most successful/profitable media franchise" means they have a lot of
money, but that would be a feat never before accomplished by anyone. Even with the most money in the world, I'd still set my bar lower.
Do you fight pokemon or is it literally just you throwing poke balls?

When are we just gonna give the reigns to an American or Canadian company so we get an actually half decent game. Ffs
For a moment I thought it was an evolution for Kabutops...
Kinda cool that he's Bug/Rock rather than Bug/Steel with Scizor. Like without the metal coat intervention this is the way Scyther would have regularly evolved.
I mean, this region is just Sinnoh some 100 years before. They are just the (implied) ancestors of these characters.
Yes!!! I’m so happy they’re going to back to normal, new evolutions for Pokémon

I hope this is the end of gimmick evolutions and we just stick with new evolutions and forms instead of things like Megas and Gigantamax changes.

New evolutions to older were one of my favorite parts of Gen 4
the other two are ancestors of (likely) Lenora and Clay. The game has some historical precedence (American/Japanese colonization of Hokkaido
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/2201473X.2019.1627697 ) which is why the starters are from gens 2, 5, and 7. It would make sense for the ancestors
of the gym leaders from the "American" games to be there.
That model is rough...
They have so much money but it looks like ass. Really unsatisfying
I don’t get why they don’t have voice acting at this point. They go through all the trouble to animate the mouth flaps for silent characters.
Yeah as cool the as the gameplay looks, the graphics look pretty dull. Everything looks so flat and blurry in the environment and I normally don't care for graphics
like that because art style above all, but for a game releasing in 2022 it looks like a game from 2015.
The world looks so incredibly dull and empty.
What bugs me the most about it is that Bandai Namco have done a bunch of Pokemon games at this point and all of them look much, much better. It's not like your
average Pokemon game has a ton of stuff on screen at once. I wish Game Freak would work with them on a mainline game.
They are bad developers. It's very simple
I long for the day that a more talented studio gets to work on a mainline console Pokemon game, but I'm not exactly holding my breath...
It doesnt matter to me how many new evolutions or pokemon we get. If this is the end quality then it'll look like it would get old very fast.
Forreal man, this legitimately looks like a game cube game.
I think I've seen better looking Pokemon models in Gmod.
It really does look like a fan game. Especially with this presentation.
There was an uncompressed screenshot posted a while ago.

The Youtube video is *really* bad. It still doesn't look great, but there's a fuckton of compression on these vids that's making it look far worse.
Yeah this is the first big pokémon title I'm passing on. There are simply too many other games worth my time and money. This is not $60 imo.
Nintendo games would benefit so much from not being on Nintendo consoles.
Because the Switch is literally just a glorified phone, and AA is really expensive performance-wise.
> I have to give Gamefreak credit for actually trying something new when they probably didn't have to

It's a bit funny to me how people are talking about a multi billion dollar Company like they're a bunch of learning-impaired toddlers. I find it hard to give credit for
such an amateurish product, when they have practically infinite resources at their disposal.
Just compare the style of the [new Kirby game](https://assets.nintendo.com/image/upload/c_limit,f_auto,q_auto,w_1920/ncom/en_US/games/switch/k/kirby-and-
the-forgotten-land-switch/screenshot05?v=2021092516) to [this game](https://www.serebii.net/legendsarceus/105.jpg)

Kirby probably has what, like a quarter of the budget to a Pokemon game. Yet it looks good
Pride.

They're just too proud of who they supposedly are and what they do. They hire no high-level talent to help, just grad students they can boss around.

They're old, greedy and think they know everything.

Pokemon is a top 3 most profitable media franchise on earth, it's inexcusable to have their game look like it does.
Pokemon merchandising money probably goes more to The Pokemon Company, not Game Freak itself. If Nintendo and The Pokemon Company don’t give Game
Freak the budget, then Game Freak won’t be able to throw money at their next game to make it look good. The idea that they have unlimited resources I’m fairly
certain is simply false.


Part of the thing is that Game Freak needs The Pokemon Company and Nintendo way more than they need Game Freak. If Game Freak can’t turn out insane profit
margins on a shoe string budget for a release timed with all the other merchandise, then they’ll jettison Game Freak and have someone else make the games. A lot
of this is also motivated by them wanting to invest the bare minimum to guarantee Switch sales or merchandising sales, for instance.

Not to say that Game Freak is a pristine developer or hyper competent; I think on the design side they could be making way better choices, and even with a tight
budget they could be making way better games. It’s just that graphical polish specifically is going to be largely determined by budget constraints, and that’s not for
Game Freak to choose. Game Freak doesn’t operate as an independent video game company with respect to Pokemon anymore, they’re an arm for The Pokemon
Company and Nintendo.
Why do you think Gamefreak has unlimited resources? They're basically the ugly step child of the Pokemon company. I seriously don't think the Pokemon Company
gives a fuck about Gamefreak. I'd be willing to bet all the sales cash goes straight to the executives pockets, not into making the next game.
Also you don't seem to take damage as a person? How does that work?
Perfect time for the NMS team to swoop in and dedicate a patch to expanding the animal-catching minigames and add competitive battling.
If the graphics are any indication of how rushed everything is, then the systems are likely not going to be very "Realized" or polished.

This almost seems like a proposed project that got too far in development hell and some higher up said "Find a way to ship it".
Introducing non-voice acted gym trainers is about as dull as it gets for a trailer.
I worry they don't even know the gameplay loop at this point. Each time we get one of these announcements it doesn't feel like it was planned, but rather they just
developed some new thing that's getting crammed in.

Like can anyone even tell me whether you battle wild pokemon or just catch them by throwing a ball? Even vs Kleavor you appear to be doing dark souls style
dodges playing as your main character, throwing rocks that reduce health, and battling with a pokemon. Are all of those valid approaches? Can you beat Kleavor by
just throwing rocks? Or are there scripted "now you can use your pokemon" moments after you reduce a certain amount of their stamina.

I worry even gamefreak doesn't know the answer to these questions at this point.
You know how people often say "this looks like a PS2 game"?

Well, this does look like a PS2 game. Or a GameCube game. Maybe a very early PS3 game, but even then not really.
This game looks more like a Pokemon Snap style game where the game play loop is just...figuring it out? I'm sure there will be some main questline that takes you
through all the nobles. But in all it looks like, here is this area, do what you want.
> I'm having a hard time grasping what the actual gameplay loop will be besides catching Pokemon over and over again.

~~This is what pokemon is. It's a primarily competitive PVP title, or at least that's where all the game's deeper mechanisms are located at. If what interests you
about pokemon is the single player components than this will likely disappoint you as well.~~

I'm an idiot, sorry, I got confused with a thread about Pokemon Diamond and Pearl and commented this in the wrong game thread.
Take away the name Pokemon from this thing and people would assume it's a third rate Monster Hunter knockoff for mobile
I also can not get over how much people are willing to forgive Pokemon just because it's Pokemon. While other AAA franchises are constantly in an arms race for
better graphics, gameplay and mechanics, GameFreak pumps out lazy cashgrabs and people keep buying. In fact, each year they buy more than previous ones.
Given the amount of fans who've complained about any lack of customization (or think it might lack it) since XY's release, yes.
>can you imagine how big a deal it'll be when they add voice acting?!

they probably won't need to do that for the next decade. JRPGs get a free pass on voice acting for whatever reason
Who even wants to take photos in such a bad looking game?
Coming on the Fall 2022 update: up to 3 save slots and customizable HUD colors!
I hang around gamedev circles a lot, and the 2 biggest problems I see with any trailer is when they demo uninteresting dialog boxes and inventory systems.

Nobody wants to watch a demo of your dialog or inventory systems. These things should not appear in the trailer *at all*. Trailer should *only* be gameplay
Is a game only allowed to show features that now other game had before? Then we are gonna have very short trailers in the future.

Doing a dodge roll? What is this, dark souls? Not a good omen. Not every game has customization and if your game has it its fair to quickly highlight it and how it
works. It wasnt sold as a brand new thing they invented.
they confirmed theres only 1 town i think
lol sure dude, shows us those student projects first
Have you seen the pokémon oreo news? That shit is selling out all over the country. Pokémon is a money printing machine, the largest selling entertainment
franchise above Mickey Mouse, Marvel, Star Wars. They will obviously milk as much as they can with as little effort as possible. They could launch a statue gallery
game and it will still sell well.
I think dev teams that were making games on 3DS are struggling to make their games look console-quality now that they're moving to the Switch. Fire Emblem
Three Houses and Bravely Default 2 are other examples.
BOTW was also in development for probably twice the amount of time.
> and dont tell me its about the limitations of the switch; BOTW came out for switch in 2016 and looked better than this.

It's far worse than that actually: People tend to forget this but BotW is actually a Wii U game that got ported over to the Switch... so it's a Wii U game, and it looks
that good. [There's barely any difference between the two versions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uYofouY9smw).

So it's hard to compare the new pokemon drivel even to Wii U games.
> i dont understand how this franchise keeps getting away with this.

Because the core group of fans that buy pokemon games aren't the same group of people that care really about this stuff. They just want pokemon. Even rolled in
dog turds it's still a pokemon game, and it's the only way to get the next hit of pokemon mainline.
I really wish Pokemon fans held the franchise/themselves to higher standards. There was a time they WERE releasing and still in the conversation for best
RPG/JRPG of the year (HG/SS, B/W)

People all throughout this thread and on the NintendoSwitch sub keep going to the "Well its outdated hardware!" yeah, so what? No one ever says "TLOU2,
Uncharted, Ghost of Tsushima looks good.....for a console from blah blah blah" no, they talk about how beautiful and graphically impressive is. It's like sure, no one
expects the Switch to output even 1440p/60 fps, but art style alone goes a long way.

You said it looks like a game that came out from 2006 but thats ALMOST undue praise to them, since even back then they were still making impressive games for
the hardware they were releasing on like Gale of Darkness/Colosseum which while I'm sure few will go "Thats my favorite in the series!" no one was complaining
that they looked like Sega Saturn/N64 games or played like them.

I've said before, but I miss when Pokemon had to actually try. When they weren't #1, and so so so many others were after that "Spot." Beyblade, Digimon, Yugioh,
etc. Even if slightly different, since Yugioh is a card game and Beyblade is a toy series, you get the analogy I'm making. EVERYONE was trying to create the next
big thing to take that spot.
The color palate is so drab too it looks like muddy garbage.
No voice acting as well.
It's about the bottom line. They keep getting away with this because it keeps selling well regardless.

Until people stop giving them money, they have no incentive to even try.
I think it's worth keeping in mind that this probably didn't even have half the development time as breath of the wild, whether or not that's a problem is a whole other
argument I'm not going to get into. I'm not certain about that development time either, but BoTW had like 5-6 years and I doubt this game had more than 2-3.
I'm not sure what the budget for this one is, but it seems pretty clear that they're putting the bare minimum into level design and aesthetics. All the scenery still
looks like it's part of a test build and I honestly thought by now they would start putting some work into it. If I had to guess, they're testing the waters for the game
mechanics in this one.

It might be to reduce financial risk to themselves in case it flops, but if it does flop it would only be because they didn't seem confident enough in this direction to put
their best foot forward. Going to wait for post release reviews before I throw any money at this one.
> hell, oblivion has better graphics than this.
>
>

It really doesn't. Oblivion has never looked good.
BOTW struggled to stay within 30fps. The hardware is so bad

and no, this game does look ugly but it doesn’t look worse than Oblivion come on people, lol
Nobody that plays them cares much about the graphics. As has been proven time and time again.

You'll argue this point, and that's fine. The game will still go on to sell millions.
I gave some thoughts in other comments about how this game is likely smaller in scale than a lot of people think along with how its probably being made by a
smaller side team while the majority of Game Freak is working on Gen 9 right now, but I also think its worth touching on how rushed a ton of Pokemon games are.
Which is sadly to an understandable (not saying I agree with it) degree since these games *have* to be out in a certain time frame since Pokemon is such a huge
media franchise that these game releases need to release before the anime, trading card game, merchandise releases, and so on use the new region and
Pokemon for their respective releases, and especially in recent years cross over events with the more "live-service-y" Pokemon games like GO and Masters are
also things the main series games need to release before. And that's just some of the things they need to consider.


I'll just say that it's not really a surprise that the 3rd version releases are among the favorites of Pokemon fans and not the original releases for a Pokemon
generation, since the 3rd version games polish up all of the issues that the original releases had that likely couldn't be fixed for those original releases (like for
instance I have yet to meet a Pokemon fan who prefers the original D/P over Platinum). This has pretty much always been an issue with Pokemon but its getting to
be more and more prevalent ever since they switched to 3D graphics, and especially now that they're on the console playing field. The games need more time in
the oven above all else but due to how huge of a multimedia franchise Pokemon is that these main series games need to be the first ones out the door for a
generation release, giving Game Freak more time feels like a frustratingly hard thing to achieve

That all aside, as far as "getting away with it" goes tbh I've always thought that as long as people like the designs for the new Pokemon they will keep coming to the
new games as long as the other aspects of the game is still passable and not, a huge broken travesty (and before I get any comments about this, no despite how
disappointing SwSh was they are not in that huge broken travesty category, they were acceptable 6/10 or 7/10 games for a lot of people). That is the big sell for a
lot of people
It’s a Nintendo game. Games have looked a generation old since the Wii.
Game Freak could shit in a box and it would sell out.

Also, Pokémon fans are up there with Sonic fans when it comes to blind devotion to their franchises. The delusion and sheer amount of hate for any negativity or
off-brand attitude is unreal. You either comply with the fandom, or you are an enemy.
 Did you see the new Nintendo Direct this week? Most of the games only looked marginally better than this. If you seriously try to tell me that Kirby or Bayonetta 3
looks generationas better than this then you're just lying or willfully ignorant.

Also no, Breath of the Wild really didn't look better than this? It had the same piss poor aliasing and watercolor artstyle in order to hide the muddy graphics. This
game also looks to have A LOT more going on onscreen at once than BOTW ever did.
Fun > latest graphics.

Target demographic doesn't GAF if a game looks old, as long as they're having a good time.
Why do the graphics matter over whether or not the game is good?
> and dont tell me its about the limitations of the switch;

okay I won't, I'm tired of explaining how a 2017 mobile device still isn't *quite* on par with a high end PC machine of 2005, mostly compensating with fancy shaders
available in the GPU. And why comparing a game that skipped an entire generation to be made doesn't help the point.

I'll just start muting people instead. dialouge on this has be lost years ago, no point in trying.
How does this resemble Monster Hunter at all?
Even compared to Monster Hunter Stories, this looks awful.
It looks insansley boring from the trailers I've seen so far. And that's not even mentioning the graphical quality.
But you don’t understand: the second one might have a Pikachu in it somewhere.
One of those games had over 5 years of development. The other one had maybe 2 at best.

Not saying that Arceus shouldn’t look better than it does, but this is not a 1:1 comparison. Hell, in the timespan it’ll take for Nintendo to releases BotW2 we’ll have
likely gotten 4 games + a sizable DLC from GameFreak, assuming that Gen. 9 is coming next year.

This is a management problem above all else, not a development problem.
Yeah. Not even talking about how the game looks, how can the biggest media franchise of all time get trailers that look like... whatever this is. Everything about this
game screams teenager beginner fan game
BDSP is... perfunctory. It's there, and now we have a slightly more modern take on Diamond/Pearl. I plan to just play it nuzlocke-style and have a leisurely time with
it.

But, yeah, Legends Arceus? Legit excited for that shit.
I'm not sure about trainer battles since they haven't shown any, but they did say that you can catch pokemon by just throwing balls, but if they're too strong you'll
have to weaken them in battle first.
The environments remind me of North Korea.
I don't need it to look great, but I hope it plays smoother than it looks.
Nintendo don't make Pokémon games...

BOTW has voice acting but the fanbase was split on the decision.
The only Nintendo characters who maybe 'should' have had voices now do in Zelda and it's bad, I hate Zelda's voice and the one I would have made up in my head
is better. Samus was worse with a voice, and Pokemon full of generic, excited anime style voice acting sounds annoying.
Probably a combination of brand protection and general conservatism.
Surely if the game was voice acted they'd have used the voice acting during that pretty lengthy segment of "Here's all these characters" where they just...stood
there with text bubbles below them?
Character customization has been a thing in Pokémon games for a while now, and people love it. It’s an RPG after all, why shouldn’t there be some customization?
>Also who gives a fuck about dressing up a character, last I checked it’s a Pokemon game.

This has been a feature for quite some time
Who gives a fuck about voice acting, last time I checked it’s a Pokemon game
> It’s not even a matter of letting people enjoy things, this is fucking dire.

It clearly is at this point, given that others seem to see this as a nice change of pace for the series.

>Also who gives a fuck about dressing up a character, last I checked it’s a Pokemon game.

Apparently ORAS fans when they removed it after X/Y
it's the same pokemon combat but with additions regarding speed and turn orders, if that's awful then you don't like the series this game is a part of and are holding
it to weird standards.
Watch your hands on the edge of this comment everyone!

This guy just discovered the word 'fuck' lol
As much as I like playing on Pokemon Showdown I really don't think Pokemon concepts should revolve around competitive at all
Not like it would matter, I’m pretty sure there’s no PVP online for this game
I feel like most people dislike the art design/direction of the game not that the game doesn't look like Spider-Man on PS4 or what have you. The game world just
doesn't feel populated or cohesive from most of the footage they've shown so far and the Pokemon rarely look like they're part of the world they're in.

Compare the art style and overall visuals of this game compared to say Super Mario Odyssey or Breath of the Wild.
90% of Nintendo games don't look like shit the fuck are you smoking, off the top of my head I can't think of a single first party Nintendo game on the Switch that
looks awful aside from this one that hasn't even come out yet.


Flip that around and I'm willing to accept that maybe 10% look like shit, maybe less.
i honestly do not understand how you can watch this and think it looks fine. it looks infinitely worse than most Switch games. it would not take a miracle to ask Game
Freak to not make a game this low quality. it’s asking for the absolute bare minimum amount of effort.
How can you not see this is below the average first party switch game? A studio as big as gamefreak should not be putting out this level of quality
even games with bad graphics have worlds that look more alive than whatever this is. its just a boring flat prairy with some trees and rocks here and there
Almost every person here complaining is going to day one this. Running into these threads and yelling “Game Freak sucks” is a nice karma boost
As someone who has been playing since Gen 1 I personally just feel like Gamefreak doesn't even try to make it look they put effort into their games anymore.

I just want a modern game that doesn't feel like I'm playing a one for one remaster of a Game Boy game. They could add all the gimmicks like Mega Evolutions and
Gigantomax but if the overall feel of the game is familiar in even a technical level then I don't need to play it anymore.
What I want from a Pokemon game is for the world to feel more organic.

You collect all these monster with special abilities and that is never utilised in the overworld. They have "lore" about relantionships between different Pokemon
species but you we never explore anything relating to their personality. I want proper exploration, "side quests" to capture certain pokemons that feel like you are
exploring their habitat.

I want the feeling that the reason some trainers in the world don't have some Pokemon is because they haven't tried hard or couldn't figure something out. As it
stands, the MC and the Rival basically become the strongest trainers in the region in a matter of weeks because apparently they are the only people "in world" that
catch and train several Pokemon.
Well then maybe it would be time they stopped churning out pokemon and started using the 800 they have. Nobody is asking for a realistic simulation of 800
different species, they could start with the original 150 and work their way up through iterations like they did with Pokemon Go. It’s not like each and every pokemon
is going to behave differently, most of then can fall into groups or categories that have the same behavior.
They don't need to have 800. Pare it down to 150, pare it down to 50, whatever, this is a new game they dont have to follow rules. But really this just looks like the
open world zones from sw/sh, except you now throw rocks first before fighting.
I think it's more so not necessarily what people want from a Pokemon game but rather the potential Gamefreak just leaves behind.

This makes it look like Gamefreak is trying the bare minimum of an "open world" Pokemon game.
>I know a lot of people wanted Pokemon on the overworld. Well, okay, it doesn't look all that great does it? Just having random Electivires out on a snowy field.

A lot of people want a nice rare steak and yet are horrified when I shit on their plate. Curious.

Also, making a primitive ecosystem out of 100 species is abso-fucking-lutely doable. You can reuse a lot of animations, behavior patterns etc. Nobody asks them
for a National Geographic level of precision, giving them Minecraft AI will already go a long way.

>Even with the most money in the world, I'd still set my bar lower.

Just because you are willing to lower your standards, doesn't mean that anyone else is.
agreed this looks more like kabutops than a scyther they really need to hire more creative people to make new pokemons
That's because the 3d model is ass.
I'm kind of surprised that its natural evolution is also heavy, and isn't something that would allow it to keep its speed unlike Scizor
Which means no stab bullet punch. Already inferior lol.
But you're also working for the Galaxy Corps or whatever that obviously becomes Team Galactic. They have the same logo.
100? I've never seen an actual given date. Just that it was long ago in a bygone era. Source?
New evolutions of old Pokemon never went anywhere, if anything they became more common after the introduction of regional forms.
I sincerely truly miss mega evolution
Gen 8 had a ton of new evolved forms of existing pokemon.

Meowth, farfetched, linoone, mr mime, corsola, yamask all got new evolved forms.
Dunsparce, Kanto Farfetched, Delibird: "So there is hope "

That said, I still like regional variants too. Pokemon's been all about evolution, and regional variations is one of the core parts of darwinism. I just don't want my old
bois to be left in the dust and be objectively worse than other regionals for it
Me too, I'll be glad if they ditched mega evolutions and gigantimax in the bin and just continued giving us regional forms and new evolutions.
It looks like jagged rocks. Like how it's supposed to?

The game looks like shit, we don't need to make up problems.
I don't think it's a money issue. I think they straight up don't know how to make a nice looking console game. This is a company that only made handheld games for
decades before Let's Go. Throw in the self-imposed annual release schedule and it doesn't leave a lot of time for retraining. I wouldn't be surprised if they're
winging the graphics for each game and hoping to learn through that.
The franchise is huge and makes a lot of money, but there's no reason to think they shell out big budgets for the games. They're meant to be simple, made quickly,
and designed around splitting content among multiple versions in order to sell more copies. It's how they've been since Red and Green, people just care about it
now since they're the ones paying for them, not their parents.
Biggest money making IP in the world and this is what they do with it
it took MH a while too, I think that complaining about the graphics makes more sense, since no voice acting seems to be a deliberate artistic choice
You’re asking for too much. Give it 10 more years
My guess is that they want to avoid having to use a nickname instead of the player name and not have to deal with the potential headache of needing dialogue for
whatever Pokemon is in your party's front slot (as well as having it sound good).
A few reasons I can think of:

1. People would just fast-forward it anyway so I don't see the point
2. Pokemon has a *lot* of text and it would need to be voice acted in 9 different languages.
3. Given that the MC is supposed to be a standin for **your** adventure, they typically have as little personality as possible which includes voice acting.
Game from 2015? I hope you’re kidding. We had Uncharted 4 and Batman Arkham Knight releasing at that time

These graphics are literally worse than Pokémon XD graphics which is a GameCube game (and still holds up)
Xenoblade Chronicles, released in 2010 on the **Wii**, looks better than this.
Pokémon and the Switch aren't where I go for graphics that'll blow me away. This trailer shows exactly the sort of gameplay I was hoping to see, which is far more
important than how it looks.
You thought the gameplay looked cool?

I felt it looked like absolute shit to be honest. I know it's cool to hate on this game but this ain't doing anything for me at all. The awkward rolls dodging a pokemon
attack, and throwing rocks that took away like 20% of the "legendary guardian" hp.. I find it incredibly hard to get excited for this..
Now that im paying $60 instead of $40, I care a bit more. I let it go a bit because pokemon was made for portable consoles but now that they are on hardware that
could look like BOTW, I don't understand why it looks like this.
More like 2006 and I am not exaggerating. In fact I can point to a dozen better looking 06 games.
Even then, there are several Wii games that look better than this. There's something very lifeless and rough about the whole presentation and lack of detail.
The problem is when the camera is in motion it looks like absolute crap. On the few shots where the camera is stationary or comes to a stop the image cleans up
and looks better. It's almost like they are using no anti aliasing techniques at all, and that's just part of the reason why I think it looks bad.
Man you can't compare this to other games on switch. Did you see the new kirby that's coming out or even monster hunter: rise? Those games look good. This
looks like a phone game.
It's honestly a fair expectation for Gamefreak, if they didn't have such a beloved series they would have gone under a long time ago.
I mean.... have you played non-pokemon gamefresk games? You know, the ones they moved most of their senior staff to?

Even the best of them barely manage to be mediocre. There clearly is a fundamental lack of talent at the company.
Those Kirby trees would fit really well in a pokemon game.

The whole aesthetic is exactly what I would want in a new Pokemon game.
Additionally, I can almost guarantee you that Kirby is going to run much, *much* better than Pokemon Legends.
I'd be willing to bet that the dev time and budget for that Kirby game are both larger than for this pokemon game. Arceus is releasing two years after SwSh roughly.
I'd bet development on Kirby has been in full swing for longer than that.
It isn't just top 3 it's number 1 of all time.
Its confirmed that you take damage as a person and once you've taken enough you're taken back to your town/camp like monster hunter
Maybe the health of your Pokemon drops even though that wouldn't really make sense.
I said this in another comment but my theory right now is that this game is likely being made by a smaller side team while the bulk of Game Freak is working on Gen
9. Which would make some sense as this game is ultimately going to be very experimental while a Gen 9 game is what the majority of people will want to see. Also
just that SwSh is getting to be a few years old now
Gamecube is what I was thinking when watching this. But even then, I feel like GC games looked better. This looks like they didn't want to spend a single $1 on it.
Any time someone says something like that they're almost invariably wrong, often to a comical degree.
If this game is as fun to play as Snap was, I'll be surprised. Snap at least looked great and had a tight gameplay loop that did what it set out to do really well.

But if you think about Breath of the Wild, what's the gameplay loop really? There are some main story quests to guide you, some side quests, but otherwise it's just
go around and see what's up. There's only like twenty types of enemies to fight and a couple bosses. But it's a perfectly fine gameplay loop if the world is worth
spending the time exploring.

I don't think Arceus is going to be as good as that, but I don't understand the criticism of a Pokemon game where "all you do" is go around catching Pokemon since
that's been their thing forever.
I would be shocked if more than 10% of pokemon players have ever battled another player.
This games graphics look like crap even compared to a mobile game lol.
Despite what Reddit will tell you, most people that play Pokémon don’t really care about the graphics, I’m not sure what the last Pokémon game you played is but
the games are still fun to play
But customization has been a thing since Gen 7
Only included as part of the paid DLC which adds a tiny island with 2 old pokemon in it.
While obviously not ALL student projects look better than this game, there are definitely some that do.

https://youtu.be/emO1JNqoFHY

@51:40.
But Marvel and Star Wars TRY to make something good. The downfall of Star Wars tends to be the lack of a plan, and even the worst parts of new Star Wars has
at least good acting, set design, production design, directing or SOMETHING.

I don't understand how the most profitable media franchise in the world turns out such low effort garbage when others seem to treat the franchise with such
reverence and respect e.g. New Pokémon Snap, Detective Pikachu movie, the TV shows and animated shorts.
Fire emblem looks way better than this
They were incompetent on the 3DS too. The battles had horrible framerates when it was just 2 models in a void.
Surely you can hire more devs
Fire Emblem had great character models. They just cut corners on backgrounds and some textures you never see, because you're gonna look at the characters
talking for 150 hours, but the fruit texture on that one market stall, you won't ever notice
The switch and Wii u are roughly the same speed.
Gale of Darkness and Colosseum weren't developed by Gamefreak tho, spin-offs were always better than the mainline games in almost every way for some reason
>There was a time they WERE releasing and still in the conversation for best RPG/JRPG of the year (HG/SS, B/W)

I still blame fans' incredible bitching over the fantastic B/W for the current state of Pokémon. GF's innovation died after Gen V.
> I really wish Pokemon fans held the franchise/themselves to higher standards.

This could be said about Nintendo fans, in general.
Botw was looking better than this in it's 2nd year of development though on a less powerful platform, it's not really an excuse.
XC2 was made by 40 people and was made in 2-3 years
not an excuse. it doesn’t take 5-6 years to make a game not look outdated by 3 console generations.
It’s a Pokémon game. It’s not gonna flop even if it’s an unplayable mess
It’s a Pokemon game. They put the bare minimum into everything then it sells like hot cakes anyway. That’s been their MO forever
Part of me wonders if this game is a smaller in scale project development wise than most people think, especially since a lot of people are making BOTW
comparisons. I wouldn't be surprised if this ended up being made by a smaller side team while the rest of Game Freak is working on Gen 9

Because let's be honest, this is ultimately going to be a very experimental game whereas a Gen 9 game is where the money is going to be, and SwSh is coming up
on being quite a few years old
This looks like a project that someone said "Ship it" because it was in development limbo. I'm hoping I'm wrong, but it's the only way for me to understand what I'm
seeing.

Even the editing and presentation of their trailers looks like a first draft, it's so bizarre
Oblivion looked great for the time.

This has better faces than Oblivion though. Oblivion NPCs all look like they are missing a chromosome.
Oblivion looked amazing when it came out what are you on about. I spent 20 minutes looking at the tesselated rocks in the jail cell when it first came out.
That's not true, other than the faces Oblivion's graphics were pretty damn nice in 2006.
So today you woke up and chose violence, commendable. With takes this hot it's no wonder the climate is changing.
I mean, it's 2006. Which looks better this or Oblivion? Perhaps its bias, but I'd go with Oblivion.
https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/elderscrolls/images/7/72/GreatForest.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/800?cb=20110621230435

Nope, Oblivion actually looks better.
It does lol. Go look oblivion’s environments. Night and day different.
Dude, come on. Put this next to like any non-pokemon Nintendo game from the last ~10 years. This would be embarrassing for the *Wii*.
You're kidding yourself if you're saying [this](https://images.nintendolife.com/32d9acbcf861f/bayonetta-3.900x.jpg), [this]
(https://images.nintendolife.com/b98f1a42f77e8/kirby-and-the-forgotten-land.original.jpg), and [this](https://images.nintendolife.com/0f8ed0e354b5c/1280x720.jpg)
only look marginally better than what we see in this trailer.

Fidelity aside all three of the above games have a clear art direction and style while Legends Arceus (much like every other Pokemon game in the past decade) has
the weirdest mix between static character models that haven't changed since 2013 and some of the lousiest environment art and material work I've seen in a while.
Kirby and Bayonetta do look far better than this, and not sure about Kirby but Bayonetta at least runs at 60FPS
Damn pokemon fans do have rose tinted glasses on always, probably looks visually better than ps4 exclusives in your eyes XD
Nobody minds if the graphics are fine. Terrible graphics bother a lot of people for cohesion reasons, though. It's jarring to have a stylized character model and then
backgrounds that look like something from RPG Maker 2007.
Yes it is really hard to have a dialogue with people who respond to half sentences only, and ignore the rest because it isn't convenient to their point.

As he said, the problem isn't it not looking as good as high end PC games, it's that it doesn't look near as good as 2017 Switch games.
mario odyssey, xenoblade chronicles 2, astral chain and luigis mansion 3 all look WAY WAY WAY more graphically impressive than this game and didn't require
skipping a generation to make.

pokemon is literally the largest and most profitable media franchise in the history of the world. This games visuals are rough and it's not the switches fault. They're
simply not putting the resources into the game to make it take advantage of the hardware. The switch is underpowered old tech and the pokemon company half ass
the graphics for their games. both of these statements can be true
lmao its a videogame dude, im entitled to an opinion about it, even if you think its wrong. its good that youre excited for this game and me not being shouldnt take
anything away from that.
I'm sorry but the visuals in this game seem to come down to time and art style decisions. The Switch's capabilities may have been a factor, but to give that so much
weight doesn't seem right when we are seeing some really beautiful games on the console that didn't require skipping generations for development.
MHS2 gave me a headache when I moved the camera. Took me a bit to get used to the framerate. Not that I have much confidence in Game Freak either, but at
least it seems like there's an improvement from the initial reveal trailer to this video.
That might be why MHS can't stay above 20FPS on switch
At the same time, I think it's worth pointing out that Breath of the Wild was developed for a last-gen console with inferior hardware while Pokemon Legends: Arceus
is releasing on a current-gen console that has been out for four years.

There is an extent to which developers are able to push hardware to new limits over time, like the massive difference in graphics between gen 4 and gen 5
pokemon games on the DS. But the capabilities of the Switch aren't a mystery anymore and if Breath of the Wild looked that good on the Wii U, I feel like there's not
a lot of room for excuses for Pokemon Legends: Arceus to look this bad on the Switch.

But otherwise you have a point, Game Freak seems to have been focusing on quantity over quality and taking their time could fix this issue easily.
Xenoblade 2 was made in 2-3 years and was made by 40 people.
Still they cost the same amount. Pokémon should cost $20 then or they should develop it longer or with more people
My biggest concern with BDSP right now is I'm still not sure if they're better games than Platinum.
It's based on Hokkaido, which is adjacent to North Korea (actually, slightly to the north of North Korea, but about as warm because it's an island and so is a little
warmer than it would otherwise be, while North Korea is connected to mainland Asia/Siberia).
The gameplay reminds me of Pokemon Go
Sorry, I think I meant in general, Nintendo dont seem to have voice acting in many of their games?
You act as if the problem is fundamentally tied to voice acting existing at all and not that Nintendo just cheaped out on bad voice acting
I think their RPGS, like Pokemon, should have full Voice Acting. Not bottom of the barrel stuff and generic anime nonsense, but just a reasonable spend for an AAA
game with full voice acting.
Like hardcore conservatism. I would say Metal Gear Solid set a really strong baseline for what narrative voice acting could do and that was in 1998.

Proper, every line is spoken, voice acting isn't really necessary. But the complete silence is dreadful. [Little BotW style grunts and introductions would give those
NPC's a lot more character.](https://youtu.be/1EsJkD14Isw)
After the "song" from SWSH, I think it's a valid complaint.

I don't know who had the idea of a "song" with no voice acting, but whoever they are they should be fired.
Because it's not an indie game made by three guys and a cat in a basement. Voice acting has been the standard in games of this caliber for like 10 years now.
Lazy and greedy decision not to have any.
I dont think so either, i think he looks cool, but from a competitive angle ehhhhhhh
Welp i didnt know that. There goes any interest i had in this.
Sword and shield also look like ass, but there’s a common thread there.
Bruh quit exaggerating lmao it does not look "infinitely worse" than most switch games, it just looks like a switch game
I haven't day 1'd a Pokemon game in 20 years. But I guess that means I'm not a fan anymore so I probably should keep my mouth shut, right?
By technical do you mean mechanics? Like the combat? Or do you mean the world progression, of running around and getting badges and stuff?
Scyther looks badass but this guy just doesn't.
But maybe STAB accelrock
Half his typing changed from the #1 defensive to one of the two worst and your first thought is the STAB?
same name in japan too, only the english version changed it trying to hide that tehyre team galactic.
Also the exact same name in Japanese ( ) and a few other languages.
People have been speculating that this game is taking place during a time in the Pokemon World that is equivalent to the Meiji Restoration (which lasted from
around 1868 to 1889).
> New evolutions of old Pokemon never went anywhere

They did though? They were absent for two whole generations after Gen IV, and even Gen VII didn't introduce any new ones, just regional variants for pre-existing
evos. Took until Gen VIII to get new evos, and even then they're all tied to regional forms now.
I think their point is more like what Gens 2-4 did, where a Pokemon got a brand new Evo instead of a gimmick. Like Rhydon, Porygon, etc.
I have a shiny level 1 Ghastly sitting in a box in Ultra Sun waiting for the day megas come back...
Same here. I didn't like Z-Moves or Dynamax/Gigantimax much but I loved Mega Evos and regional variants. Those were great ideas.
THANK YOU! I seriously thought it was great and actually added to the meta a lot and let some pokemon who were usually UU Pokemon get into the OU tier
through mega-evolution. Not just that but the forms were all pretty well designed with a few exceptions and the fact they were temporary meant their overly
decorated appearance didn't overstay its welcome and was fun to see once a battle. It was like some Pokemon had the ability to go super saiyan, it was a really
entertaining mechanic in the story but also imo really refreshed the meta game in Pokemon.
I get a small amount of joy walking around with my Mega Houndoom in PoGo but that's about all I can get nowadays =[
Yes, but the original forms of those Pokemon didn't get evolutions. Galarian Cursola and Sirfech'd are cool, don't get me wrong, but Johto Corsola and Kanto
Farfech'd are still as useless as ever.
The weirdest part is though, I thought Let's Go looked pretty damn good for what it was. It really captured that original Anime series visual style and everything just
really meshed together.
It's a talent issue for sure. The problem is that they have all this money they should have attracted and recruited talent. And thats something money cant buy, its
something that should have been done like 10 years ago.
> Throw in the self-imposed annual release schedule

lol I like how people just continually act like Nintendo and Creatures aren't part of the equation when it comes to the forced annual release schedule.
The majority of a game’s budget goes into labor. So it really is a money issue. If they don’t have the talent (or raw manpower) themselves, they should be hiring
people who do.
I mean we had a couple console rpgs on GameCube and they looked great for the time.
People care because the industry has advanced considerably over the last 20 years and GameFreak hasn't. Pokemon wasn't cutting edge when it came out, but it
was par for the course. They also weren't doing annual releases so your point is entirely invalid.
MH cemented that I'd rather have no voice acting than bad voice acting.

Edit: and it should be noted that "bad voice acting" often isn't the fault of the voice actors. Obviously the voice direction plays a big part. But I think that writing does
too.

Is the Handler constantly calling you "pard" (short for partner) any worse writing than the Guildmarm calling you "doodle" in MH4U? Probably not. But it feels a lot
more grating to me when voiced. The voice acting brings the character to life a bit more, and I end up thinking "nobody *talks* like that". I genuinely think it's a lot
harder to pull off quirky writing when voice acting is involved.
If only every other videogame had solved this problem before
[Here](https://i.imgur.com/VhfsOSS.jpg) was the comparison I saw posted a while ago.

But Oblivion was FAR above Pokémon xd, although arguments could be made for certain *art styles* holding up better.
It looks like a 3DS game honestly.
You haven't actually looked at the GameCube Pokémon games in a while, have you?
I simply don't agree that this looks worse than XD lol. The lighting is flat, sure, and I definitely wouldn't say that this looks as good as BOTW, but XD is....real dated,
imo. XD did have good animations though, so we'll see if this can compare with that.
You are damn right dude. 2015 my ass. More like 2006.
These graphics would be on the low end even for a PS2 game...
xenoblade is absolutely a way better game than this has any chance to be, but don't exaggerate. Xenoblade didn't have better graphics than this.
Ight no need to lie to underline your point. Xenoblade on wii looks like someone melted every characters face together.
no, absolutely not. Xenoblade looked pretty awful on the Wii back in 2010. The art direction made up for it but any closeup of a character was terrible. I distinctly
remember people complaining how bad it looked when it was revealed

The Wii was a terrible console and set Nintendo back a few years, although it was their most successful home console.
Fucking hell mate, at least *try* to make your lie believable.
Come the fuck on. The game doesn't look good, it looks very poor, but to say it looks like Xenoblade Chronicles is probably one of the most insane hyperbolic
comments I have ever seen for this game yet. Xenoblade Chronicles on the Wii is without a doubt one of the worst looking first-party titles that Nintendo has ever
produced. The character models are some of the ugliest models in a Triple A game, there's a reason it only took a decade to remake the game: because it
desperately needed it from day 1.
Graphics aren't the end all be all of a good game but let's not pretend that a good game isn't enhanced by good graphics.
it's not his HP
The Pokemon is just a new evolution of Scyther.
that pokemon is level 18 why did you convince yourself it was a legendary? lmfao
when you're a pokemon fan, anything not typical pokemon combat looks cool i guess. Pretty low bar

I think it looks bad visually and gameplay wise but its pokemon so mediocre is great in fans eyes
There's a multitude or reasons. The developers are different, the engines they're running the game on are different, different budgets, different art styles, etc. Why
don't all games on Xbox look as good as forza? Why don't all games on Sony look as good as the last of us 2?

I'm asking because I'm genuinely not sure but what games look as good as botw on switch?
It's really an overgrown 3DS game. GameFreak never really do more than the bare minimum. They know Pokemon will sell like a motherfucker no matter what it
looks like. Sun and Moon for the 3DS didn't even use the 3D screen.
I mean it looks miles and miles ahead of something like Xenoblade Chronicles on the Wii when you compare it to other open world JRPGs on the system
Almost no first party Switch games use anti-aliasing. It doesn't have much overhead, and Nintendo seems to think cheap solutions like FXAA look worse (which I'd
generally agree with for sub-1080p games)
They also all have a lot of aliasing, his point wasn't that it looked as good as other Switch games but that the vast majority of them have aliasing.
What does that have to do with this lol?

Super Kirbio Odyssey looks great, yes, but it also seems to completely lack AA- Again, because AA is extremely costly.
The Kirby game looks better yes, but it still has jaggies out the shit because virtually every game on the Switch does.

Anti-aliasing was never a strong point for the console from day 1.

The problem with this particular game is it just looks like trash in general. That's not Kirby's problem, it's fucking Game Freaks.
I'd be happy if the serie was given to a more competent studio, let them do the concept arts
> There clearly is a fundamental lack of talent at the company.

I dont think GF has EVER been good with 3D model based games...
Hell they don't even make the Pokemon Models, Creature.Inc does it.
By a fairly massive margin, yes.
That's sad. I want to see this. Open world Pokemon with riding and exploration ... but done well.

Not another ultra-linear new gen game.

Anyway I hope this is good but gonna have to wait for reviews and youtube playthroughs.
Are we really doing this? Weird conspiracy theories that have literally no basis on reality? Maybe they still are bad at making 3D, no need to got to werid reason that
you have no proof
I mean, people definitely exaggerate, but it's not [THAT](https://gamefabrique.com/storage/screenshots/ngc/pokemon-colosseum-22.png) far off. The
character/pokemon models look better, but as far as the environment design and textures, it's not much of a difference, and truthfully colosseum might look better
in that department.

The ground, rock, tree, etc. Textures all looked awful in this trailer, and are still incredibly basic and bare-bones. The town itself looks alright, but the actual open
world still looks empty and barebones in this trailer.
But not this time.
I tend to agree, but this definitely looks worse than RE4, KH2, Sunshine, and Metroid Prime. Those are straight up better looking games lol.
10% of the absolutely massive, millions-of-copies-shipped population that buys Pokemon is still a ridiculous number of players. The competitive community is huge,
regardless of what percentage of the total Pokemon customer population they are.
Genshin Impact is a mobile game so yeah.
Even as a FanMade game I’d still think it’s a bit lacking… it being apart of the highest grossing franchise in the entire world physically hurts me.
I tried sun/moon and sword/shield.

Maybe they are fun for you, but they aren't for me any more, and I've played every Pokemon generation since red/blue.

When you've played the exact same game for over two decades it gets real dull. And god the insane hand holding just made it even worse.

Game freak is a shitty company who doesn't know how to innovate to release something more than yearly fodder for the nostalgia boner crowd.
>Pokémon game you played is but the games are still fun to play

Agree to disagree then. I've played Moon and Shield, and found both of them incredibly unsatisfactory. I dropped shield and sold it after about 8 hours or so of
playtime. They feel completely outdated and bland compared to any Other JRPG coming out in the last decade or so. Not to say the games were ever deep, but at
least with the first few gens, they were pretty on-par with other JRPG's at the time, they've just literally never evolved in the gameplay department.
It's more than that even. SwSh are good looking games by switch standards for the most part. The wild area is subpar and the animation are unimpressive. The
rest of the game looks pretty good tho. Reddit only talks about the subpar bits. But most games I've played on switch have shit like that. Some of those character
models in the bayo 3 trailer looked like they could've come from the PS2 era for example.

The argument back is that they shouldn't just look solid compared to switch games. They should be the best looking considering the popularity. That's fair. But the
short answer there is that nintendo has clearly chosen to make more pokemon games with shorter dev cycles. Arceus is 2 years after SwSh. If botw came out 2
years after skyward sword it would've looked like shit.
> or think it might lack it

Not every game since had significant customization, and whether or not they did have it is entirely different to *when* it was shown.
honestly I think the biggest reason is that pokemon has gotten so out of hand that the actual original games are such a small slice of the pie that they have now
become beholden to everything else instead of the other way around. Pokemon can no longer have its proper due time to actually carefully craft a new game like
every other nintendo franchise because they have to make sure each new entry comes out to coincide with the new line of plushies and the next movie and the
next season of the anime and every other piece of merchandise.

I mean they put out a new pokemon game like every single year at this point. The only control the games actually have over the franchise at this point are the new
pokemon designs and that's pretty much it. But if they dared to delay putting out a new game to actually polish it that means that the plushie manufacturers don't
get their new designs in time for their next shipment and so on and so forth.

Like when a new Star Wars movie comes out, regardless of your opinions on them, it's still a huge deal and is the primary driving force of the franchise. Everything
else in the franchise comes out around the new movies. But Pokemon is almost the opposite at this point.
If I had to guess the bulk of TPC's income is from merchandising. The games are really there to market 100+ new creature designs per generation plus make sure
some fan favorites are in. Can't make a Pokemon game without Charizard.

The gameplay is secondary, if not tertiary in priority and that's mostly on fans searching for that nostalgia high. Doesn't matter if the gameplay loop is shorter, less
engaging and so easy a dog could play the game, you got to see Pokemon battles, gyms, surfing, new mons, beat a criminal organization and enslave a local deity.
You feel like a kid again, or at least you recognize that's how you're supposed to feel.

GF is not putting effort into the main games because TPC doesn't need them to. Because the real money is elsewhere, in toys, in plushies, in cards, in animation.
And if they get heat from phoning it in they can count on diehard Nintendo and/or Pokemon fans plugging their ears and telling the haters to go away.
> Star Wars TRY

As a Star Wars fan, I'm gonna nickpick, they did not try until Kennedy and Abrams sunk the sequel and a good chunk of Lucas characters with it, including both OG
protagonists...

End of pointless Star Wars nickpick.
Three Houses looks a lot like this lol. I loved that game to death but god it was ugly
Okay. The point is that it has a lot of cut corners that make it feel more like a half-step between a 3DS game and a Switch game than what you'd expect a console
game to look like. The warped 2D backgrounds they try to pass off as 3D environments during support convos are worse than anything we've seen from Pokemon
Legends.
Three Houses is one of my favourite games ever, but no, it does not look way better than this
Three Houses is on par with this, frankly. But it also gets away with it because it's also a smaller franchise, and the environments are usually on a zoomed out map.
Throwing more devs won't really help. There are bottlenecks that will just end up wasting them.

They just need more time and some help from more experienced 3d developers.

Pokemon's biggest issue is the need to rush out games every single year. And now Arceus, which could easily be a 2022 or 2023 holiday game, is being rushed out
alongside another Pokemon game. They know their games will sell no matter what so the quality isn't a concern, thet just need to keep pumping them out.
That's kind of my point, isn't it? It doesn't just look dated to 2017 (Switch), but to 2012 (Wii U).
Because the hardware is similar (as you stated), you would think Game Freak had nearly a decade to learn and develop and tweak these graphics. But they're on a
yearly / biannually launch schedule and lack the talent (employees and culture and management) for that, so here we are.
I had no idea before today, thanks for the correction! Sometimes their games shine through the *most* when they outsource it, like the new Pokemon Snap title.
"for some reason" it's almost like game freak is a shitty developer and has been riding in the same shit they've done for two decades instead of improving and
iterating.
BOTW went MIA for years, no way of knowing how it looked
No, it wasn't. 40 people were just monolith employees. They had over 200 people from contractors and outsourcing companies.
All I'm saying is it stands to reason that a game isn't going to look as good as one with twice the amount of development time on the same console. Pokemon
games should look better, they deserve more dev time, but they don't and they won't get it because they don't need it.
Perhaps it does when it’s a portable console that’s specs are outdated by two home console generations.
At this point, I don't think a Pokemon game could flop even if it destroyed your system.
you take that back, before they jumped to 3D the games were legit amazing
Doesn't help that they have so many different teams working Pokemon projects. There is no consistency behind the games
The BOTW comparisons are what will likely hurt this one the most. But I'm honestly expecting the open world design to be a lot more like the wild areas in sword
and shield. Which would support the idea that this game is much smaller in scale than it's letting on
> Part of me wonders if this game is a smaller in scale project development wise than most people think.

From what they're released so far, this is pretty accurate and a lot of folks are going to end up disappointed if they compare it to BOTW. It's doesn't even appear to
be an open world game; just a series of open areas you pick from a menu (e.g. monster hunter missions)
The scale of the game doesn't matter. Gamefreak honestly don't have actual talent needed to make good games in the modern era. They tried to make a
townwhatever game and it flopped hard. At this point, they'll just keep churning out mediocre Pokemon games for all eternity.
https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/elderscrolls/images/7/72/GreatForest.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/800?cb=20110621230435

Even now it looks better than this game ...
People really don’t remember how crazy oblivion was in 2006 compared to the PS2 games I was mostly playing
A still image overlooking the vistas look great on Oblivion sure.

Its when you start moving around that illusion breaks down. The trick from old 3d games of bushes and leaves just being 2d sprites that move to point wherever you
are is *really* outdated now.
This without question. Is everyone here high or just looking back on Oblivion with nostalgia goggles like "Man Oblivion was literally Last of Us level graphics!"
Look at the character models and animations. Wyrdeer running doesn't look great- it looks a bazillion times better than the awkward flesh horses of Oblivion (and Im
saying that with deep nostalgia for Marbles the priory horse)
Bayonetta pic isn't a good choice. When they showed actual gameplay you could see that all of the building structure assets were the same and they were incredibly
poorly rendered. Kirby is aliased to all hell and has what is almost becoming a staple in Nintendo Switch games where they use a shallower depth of focus in order
to hide the fact that the backgrounds look like dogshit.
lol Bayonetta runs at 60FPS because it looks worse than Bayonetta 2!
Video games are **serious** fuckin business buddy, watch yourself.
And yet fucking DOOM is pretty much locked at 30 with pretty rare drops. And BotW is 25-30 everywhere, apart from 2 areas. Tony Hawk 1+2 is locked at 30.

MHS just sucks.
I’m not saying that the devs are completely blameless here. Arceus still looks worse than it should. All I’m saying here is that upper management is just as much to
blame, if not more so, for the low quality.
No it wasn't. 40 people was just monolith. The entire staff composed by contractors and outsourcing companies was over 200.
What was better about Platinum than Pearl/Diamond? I only played Pearl.
I think the Ruby/Sapphire remakes had the extra stuff from Emerald, didn't it?
Why, because you can opt to throw a pokeball at a wild pokemon when in 3rd person? You can also throw a pokeball with a pokemon inside of it to initiate a battle
and catch it the old fashioned way too.
The presentation of the trailer reminds me of a High School project done the night before
It very likely keeps the costs lowered on their games honestly. They'd need to have at least 2 VA's per character (English and Japanese) or potentially more if they
wanted to cover the other key languages around like French/German/Spanish.
In general Nintendo games have much smaller budgets than other AAA games. Their design phosphy also tends to favor gameplay over all other aspects, so why
spend money on voices in several languages when it can go towards working on the game itself?
I mean it's an anime art style game but you want serious WRPG voice acting? I just don't see the point when the game's main target audience is literally children.
lol I agree. I was pointing out his complaint of dressing up because “it’s a Pokemon game” and how dumb it sounds.
You missed my point. I was pointing out his complaint of dressing up shouldn’t be in the game because “its a pokemon game”
Nintendo doesn't do voice acting for most of their games. It's a dumb design choice by them, but I don't see people complaining when it's other games, just
pokemon.
Same man. Brilliant diamond is pretty much all I have to look forward to
In an awful twist Legends Arceus looks way, way, way, way worse than Sword and Shield, at least imo


Of course gameplay is a major step up presumably, but it just looks so sad.
I mean, I’m not saying you have no right to say anything, but why even go into a thread for a game series you haven’t played in 2 decades just to complain? I don’t
give a shit about Marvel, so why would I go onto one of their subreddits to complain about their movies or shows? Just ignore it instead of getting worked into a tizzy
about a game you never cared about.
I think a good way to imagine it is like this:

1. Look at Pokemon Red/Blue

2. Look at Pokemon Gold and Silver.

3. Look at Ruby/Sapphire

4. Look at Emerald.

If you compare the technical aspects of these games, you can see a _very_ clear progression of mechanics and gameplay.

* Day/Night cycles

* Pokemon encounters/evolution based on time of day

* Breeding

* Secret Bases

* Underwater Areas

* Braille Puzzles (not difficult but the concept of this puzzle was a first)

* Postgame content

And that's just naming some of the improvements. These kinds of things made new games _feel new_. There was always an interesting addition to throw
something into the formula besides a new region and 'mons. On that note, what happened to the 100+ new creatures per installment? We know there are a ton of
unused ideas as per the spaceworld demo that got leaked, so it isn't like they don't already got a bunch on tap.

One can't even make an argument about features being too hard for children or anything either, because that **was** the target demographic originally and it sold
unbelievably well. I would rather buy a game for my kid that promotes thinking and puzzle solving over being an on-rails theme park experience like modern
pokemon has become.

Pokemon games used to feel like every installment was a marked improvement and added a lot to the formula. The last decade or so has been stagnant and feeling
like a minimum-viable-product scenario in comparison. Considering the value of the IP and the general profits they made, there's not much of an excuse to be half-
assing their videogames.
No more 4x weakness to fire though.
I did think about rock type being weaker first, but I decided to comment on the bullet punch instead. Lets be honest, most of scizors job is revenge killing. You can
have a garbo type as long as you have the move set to support that job.
Are they trying to hide it even? Even a 6 year old can piece that together.
To be fair, Gen V was specifically to introduce a whole new Pokédex and it didn't have gimmicky megas/dynamax. And Gen VI had Sylveon, so that's only one full
generation.
I was replying to this:

> I hope this is the end of gimmick evolutions and we just stick with new evolutions and forms instead of things like Megas and Gigantamax changes.

Megas and Gigantamax didn't replace new evolutions, they both got more common after the introduction of those mechanics.

And does it really matter if they're also regional forms? When you factor in the different typings, designs and stats, an Alolan Raichu is as different from regular
Raichu as Slowking is from Slowbro.
Honestly they could retcon Gmax and Megas into one system if they wanted. The only issue would be that the kanto starters and gengar have access to both so
you'd need a way to switch.
Z-moves were the best. A much better strategic addition than megas or dynamax because they didn't give a busted defensive boost on top of the strong offensive
boost. Also could be used on anything instead of a handful of mons.

Idk if there’s a mega form the I dislike. They’re all very well-designed imo
Honestly the weirdest part to me is that we got Galarian Farfetch'd which isn't too different. It's basically the farfetch'd your girlfriend told you not to worry about with
some big leek energy.
Might as well establish a more 'knightly' culture surrounding regular farfetch'd and have him evolve.
I do thoroughly enjoy that the shiny is yellow though. In my mind it's basically a swole Alfred J Kwak.
Lets Go is a somewhat remake of the first games. It can look good (ran like absolute ass at times, especially in the forest at the beginning) because it doesn’t have
a ton of content, and it looks like a prettier handheld game. Arceus has to look good as a console game, which is something much harder for such a mediocre
company
Well yeah it’s a top down game where every tree uses the same model, they don’t have to animate grass, and things generally lack textures. So yeah, it’s way
easier to make that look good.
The Let's Go games look so good imo(even if the performance suffered). I was super disappointed that the DP remakes looked so much worse in comparison.
They still hire like a typical Japanese company - a trickle of fresh grads every year and very little else. They're not pulling in veterans and experts.
All they need is a competent Environment artist and a competent character artist. All the issues with Arceus’ visuals are just extremely amateur issues.
It's Masuda. Pokemon won't be great until they reduce his role within the company or move on from him entirely. There's a reason *this* game looks so terrible and
he oversaw production. They need a competent console developer in charge.
Not even just Nintendo and Creatures but all the companies who churn out Pokemon merchandise and related media.

Aside from not really having any financial reason to slow down and increase quality (no real competitors + the controversy and perceived continual drop in quality
resulting in... Continued success and record sales) it would likely also be a logistical nightmare to suddenly slow the train down now. Folks working on this likely ate
planned to work on the next thing once this wraps up, merchandise for this and the next game are probably already finalized or underway, like, lots of moving parts
that might buckle if they pull the brakes just to make a better game.

If they delay Arceus for a year or two two polish it up and do whatever wish fulfillment and quality checklist you can dream of... Would they actually sell many more
copies to justify the expense to a profit-seeking mindset? If anything they could probably afford to sell the game even more underbaked for whatever negligible hit it
would ultimately have on the brand.
Yeah I mean this is a big factor in it too, Game Freak is not the only one with a say in when Pokemon games get released. Cause Pokemon isn't just the games its a
huge multimedia franchise with Creatures Inc. and Nintendo having their own skin in the franchise in certain ways, for example Creatures handles a lot of the toy
stuff, Nintendo handles distribution, they both have worked on the TCG and so on and so on and The Pokemon Company is there to basically handle all these
different interests so the francise doesn't tear itself apart from being pulled in so many directions.

The real root of the problem I think is that everything Pokemon related is tethered around the concept of "we can't release most of this stuff until the next main
game comes out". Which from a business perspective makes sense, who's gonna buy plushies and trading cards of creatures they haven't gotten to know yet? But
it puts the onus on Game Freak to get these games out as soon as they can and disincentivise them from ever making a delay.

Even if Game Freak have the ability go to The Pokemon Company and Nintendo and Creatures and just say "we're delaying the game a few months, deal with it"
they wouldn't because that would be stepping on the toes of the people they need to work with.

If you wanna see the games get better I think the real change that needs to happen is untether the rest of the franchise from the games so there's no expectation
for Game Freak to get these games out at a speed that suits everyone elses interests and they can take a bit of extra time with them even if that means a delay.

That unfortunately probably won't ever happen because as I just said it's not financially convenient for everyone else and right now Pokemon's doing better
financially than at any point after the original boom in the 90s so there's gonna be little to no motivation on that end to change anything.
Pokémon Colosseum and XD were developed by Genius Sonority.
Your comment is just incorrect.

* Red/Green/Blue: 1996
* Yellow: 1997
* Gold/Silver: 1999
* Crystal: 2000
* Ruby/Sapphire: 2002
* FireRed/LeafGreen/Emerald: 2004

Games were coming out extremely rapidly in the opening generations. Also they aren't annual releases nowadays either, but the development time for Pokemon
games was ALWAYS rapid. Furthermore, the first gen of games were horribly broken and incredibly unbalanced. They existed as a way to cash in the novelty of
the trading link cable of the Gameboy.
I really like the japanese dub
Let’s compare face models if we’re going to talk Oblivion.
It does look like a 3DS game! Actually, quite a few 3DS games that look better than this.
Spoken like someone who hasn't played a PS2 game in 20 years and only remembers it as the best the industry had to offer at the time.
Alright, let's chill with the exaggerations here.
The graphics were worse sure, but the landscapes(my biggest issue with Legends) absolutely looked much better in Xenoblade on the Wii than Legends. It's not an
issue of graphics but how good the developers are at designing the terrain.

[I looked up some gameplay just to make sure I wasn't imagining the Switch version](https://youtu.be/rpVh7NN2TJg?t=1188) and yeah I 100% think it looks a lot
better.

edit: [Found a better example of XC Wii gameplay.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kdNF-KWr3HU) I'd be shocked if Legends has anything that looks as good
as Satorl Marsh even as it appears on the Wii.
The faces are so damn terrible it’s almost comical.

Wonder if the remake is messing things up in peoples minds. The Wii game looks abysmal.
People are looking at old games with gigantic nostalgia glasses. You hear them talk about this game look like a Wii game or that game look like a PS2 game, but
you look at what a real PS2 game looks like and it's night and day.

The most egregious is people saying Metroid Dread looks like a DS game
idk man, the rez is lower, but the world and foliage and details are more built out - https://youtu.be/rpVh7NN2TJg?t=640
Monoliths strategy has always been to utilize the same models throughout. So the characters look pretty good in the grand vistas the game, but terrible when you
zoomed in close.

But yeah, Arceus looks like an early PS360 era game. To be fair, Switch is much closer to 360 Power than Xbone, but Arceus looks closer to Oblivion than Skyrim
Idk man, except for the lower resolution, I'm inclined to agree. They simply populated the world better, have more foliage, and it overall looks more realistic and
artistically made - https://youtu.be/rpVh7NN2TJg?t=640

This poke legends looks like a college kids side project on procedural generation. And if you look at the footage of XC remade for switch, it blows this out of the
water.
Yeah it's some new secondary gauge. Gotta wear them down before opening them up for an attack
Bidoof is my favorite legendary pokemon !
Even BOTW isn't "amazing" graphicly honestly, it's just a benchmark for what switch games imo should/could aim for. It's very pretty, but not mind blowing if were
being honest. But I think that game set the standard of what we should expect more or less on the switch. Even mario odyssey, a game that didn't need to look as
good as it does, looks great for a mario game. For a franchise as big and as lucrative as pokemon, the game should look better.
I honestly think Xenoblade Chronicles looks better than this. Hell, even Skyward Sword. Even then, we're literally comparing games that are more than 10 years old
to this game that's not even out yet. Sure, it might look a bit better, but compared to similar games on the Switch (which should be the benchmark here) it looks so
unfinished, especially the terrain.
standards are at the fucking earth’s core if looking better than a decade old Wii game is supposed to be a good thing.
Because you can get away with aliasing if everything else looks fine or if there’s some visual density. Not in a barren world like Arceus has where all you have is
three hideous trees, a patch of grass, and the player character.
Honestly for how good they are with visual concepts it's a god damn mystery how they can't apply that to gameplay
If Game Freak was smart they would use both this and the Wild Area reception from SwSh and let that carry over to a full on open world Gen 9 but I guess we'll
have to wait and see lol. Like if this game was being used as a test game to see how they would implement a fully open world Gen 9 since that will ultimately be a
bigger release than this game. They clearly do understand that people want to see open world Pokemon at least
Monster Hunter Stories 2 is kinda just that... Actually, from watching the trailer it looks like they just copied a bunch of things from that game.
There is literally nothing proving that Gamefreak is not doing their best for this game (even if it not "good"), like some of you people get to weird conspiracy theories
I mean... this!

Pokémon Madmax from the early 2000's looks better (in part thanks to art direction) than... 2021's flat renaissance japan?
Absolutely, it is huge. But it's not really 'what pokemon is' if a fraction of the players ever engage with it, surely?
Sun and Moon was the last one I played and the hand holding was just awful.

For me, I'm just so over the combat at this point. You pick the strongest of your 4 moves or your type advantage move, which usually is just your strongest move.
Repeat this for 95% of the entire time you're playing the game.

I get that they can't rock the boat too much for fear of alienating fans but I would love it if they added some action-based elements to combat or at the very least
increase combat complexity with like, idk, giving you 10 moves to choose from and you choose 2 in each turn and maybe there's some kind of synergies when you
combine different moves and types together...

I really don't know what exactly would work but I just know that rehashing the same exact combat formula with almost no changes since the franchise's inception is
just not doing it for me anymore. And that's fine. Not everyone wants Pokémon combat to change.

I am very interested in DokeV. Feels like this is gonna be the Pokémon-like gacha game I was always dreaming Pokémon could some day become.
Y'know. As much as Ubisoft getting shit thrown at them with every new game release, at least they keep the quality reasonable at a steady pace. Every new game
from Ubisoft looks copy-pasted, but every new game from them also looks so crisp and pretty. Shows they really put a lot of efforting into oiling the game machine
Good point I never thought about it like that but at the end of the day, all those plushy makers and anime directors are waiting on the next game to be nearly
complete before they can fully spin up production.
No need to guess. Don't have the financial graph on hand but merchandise dwarfs all other categories in terms of what makes money.
>You feel like a kid again, or at least you recognize that's how you're supposed to feel.

Thank you, I'm going to use this line in the future.
I don't know. The environments in Three Houses were pretty awful but the detail and fidelity of characters was wayyy higher. Look at the model for Kleavor(?) in
this trailer. It's some Gamecube shit.

But yeah, Three Houses isn't the best comparison.
Hard disagree. character models are better, animations are better. Granted this is a more ambitious game as it Is open world and all.

Fire emblem Is not prettty but it is objectively better looking than this.
The Wii U is irrelevant when talking about Game Freak. They never even touched it.
The Game Awards footage was literally of the game in its 2nd year of development.
such a stupid excuse. there are countless switch games that look infinitely better than this. why do you feel like you have to jump to defend GF here? baffling.
It occasionally bricks your system and you'll need to get a new one

9/10 there's a little something for everyone

\-IGN
Gamefreak really tends to only work on one Pokemon game at a time from what I've seen. The Diamond/Pearl remakes are totally outsourced to another company
entirely.
Do we even know for sure if it's a completely open world?

I keep seeing people talk about it being more like Monster Hunter, where you just get a hub and some smaller open areas.
While its definitely worse when it comes character models and animations (like just trying running diagonally in third person in Oblivion), the overall environment just
looks better compared to the one here.

But you also have to remember that we are comparing a game coming out next year to one that came out 15 years ago and you had to specify that the character
models and animations were what looked good, not just everything.
[Bayonetta 3 still looks good in actual gameplay](https://youtu.be/bUAtX8Ox7eI?t=165). The environments might not be the more gorgeous thing I've ever seen but
they're well above good enough and it's clear the graphical budget is focused towards the characters, which are the focus of the gameplay. And that's ignoring
Bayonetta 3 is running at 60fps while Arceus is running at only 30fps, and it *still* looks better.

You didn't address my main point in that the main problem isn't fidelity. It's that even 8 years after X&Y, GF still have no idea how to handle art direction (or tech art,
or sound design, or...) in 3D. If I strip away the hardware, can I say "okay, I see where GF were going with the art"? No, I can't. This is not a hardware issue, this is a
studio one. I'm looking forward to the game, but it not a very appealing one to look at.
No one is saying these look incredible but they're on a different level from Pokemon. I genuinely do not see what you're saying.
Well yeah it's going to have sacrifices to be 60FPS but it still looks better than this. Bayonetta 3's main issue in visuals compared to 2 is art style, not technical
graphics. But if you want to see a 30FPS Platinum Game, Astral Chain is leagues above this.
It doesn't look worse than Bayo 2. The Switch is more powerful than the WiiU.

No, one trailer that was purposely made to bait and switch Astral Chain isn't enough to judge
Stories is not optimized for Switch very well you're right. But the game itself is awesome on PC.
Improved pokedex (more fire types), updated story line with new area to access for Giratina, and it has the battle frontier which is one of the best post game areas
in all of Pokemon.
Nope. They had some, but a lot of the Emerald additions were just ignored. Most notably the Battle Frontier.
Yeah that horrible font screams powerpoint.
Yeah, I agree, I’m just surprised that Nintendo is still taking cost cutting measures on titles.
It’s just odd that Nintendo, which has made several money printing consoles and games, is making tight budget considerations about whether games should have
voice acting.

Just really baffling to imagine a game from a Sony studio like Spiderman or God of War not having voice acting so they could spend the money focused on
development.

And Nintendo makes considerably more than Sony, which was largely propped up by its PlayStation brand.
I suppose if the demographic is literal children then:

Reading comprehension is generally low

Reading can be challenging for them


This means you have to use easy words with few syllables in them so they can grasp the narrative easily.

If just have some moderate VA then you can tell a story that kids can understand and is a lotttle more complex. Children’s films have more interesting and
challenging narratives than children’s books for this reason.

I’m not saying it has to be ‘serious’ and top of the line, just yeah, a reasonable VA for a video game.
Ah, I see. I thought it was a legitimate opinion that the games shouldn't have voice acting.
Fire Emblem has full voice acting. Mario and Zelda have had partial voice acting since the N64 days. I just don't want the same dumb silence that we've had for 25
years.
Even then that is also more of a spinoff, pribably just keep playing sword and shield.
I care about the potential of this particular series for my own reasons. You don't often have too many unrivaled series with this much fan discontent. You mentioned
Marvel - most people seem stoked for all the new Marvel stuff. Pokemon? People seem to still like their favorite Pokemon, as in the creatures. But they don't seem
to care a lot about anything else, from the games, the show, the card game, nothing.
Now only weak to water, rock, and steel instead of being neutral/ resisting those
Despite the 4x weakness, Scizor still has incredible defensive typing.
I did forget about Sylveon, but that's literally the singular exception, the point still stands.
Honestly not a great example, Slowking and Slowbro are basically the same Pokemon except with the defenses swapped and one gets Nasty Plot. If Slowking were
introduced today it would just be a regional variant of Slowbro.

Side note I do think it's funny that they both got Galarian variants themselves though.
They were good from a competitive standpoint I guess but as a more casual player they felt way less cool and didn't give any new designs for Pokemon.
For me personally Mega Sableye and Mega Mawile kinda miss the mark a little on design
This seems like a weird excuse given this looks objectively worse visually than Let's Go for a variety of reasons
I mean, as a 3D artist would you rather go to one of the dozens of world class studios in Japan making insanely visually impressive games with household name
talent where you'll be able to flex your skills, or a company that like regularly fails at making low res switch games lmao. But yeah you're also totally right about the
hiring thing.

The secondary problem with this hiring method is that often even if you're talented and have great ideas they'll straight up dismiss you since you're not at the top of
the hierarchy. So it takes a lot of time for stuff to change. It's one of the things a lot of my friends in Japan dislike the most about working there.
ive seen numerous threads saying how pokemon games are a complete unoptimized mess. i think its way bigger than that.
I'm not sure you can say it's Masuda when you don't know how their development works internally. This is just accusation based on the name you know.
I agree masuda is a thorn in Gamefreaks side, but Masuda wasn't involved in this game by design, they specifically distracted him with the Gen4 remakes so they
could make this away from his weird ideas of the direction pokemon should be going.
I actually didn’t realize they were not in house. Wow
Yeah I think people constantly forget that the 80s and 90s were like the idea of shilling mass produced low quality crap to kids really hit full gear. Pokemon was
never the most cutting edge game out there, they just used the "cutting edge" accessories for the thing they were released on to show people what they could do
and give kids a reason to bug their parents to buy another thing. A lot of the actual accessories/mechanics weren't really cutting edge though, a lot of them were
straight up *bad.*
I ended up switching to Monster Hunterese. I think it's harder to notice any issues when you don't speak the language, so foreign dubs (or gibberish dubs) are
generally fine. But I also don't think I'd be able to recognize an unusually *good* voice performance in Japanese. It just sort of averages things out.
It doesn't, and we both know it
>The graphics were worse sure

thanks, those were my exact words
There's definitely a lot of people that didn't realise they completely redid the character models and a lot of the art in general for the remake lol
The funny thing is, I seem to recall nobody really caring how bad Xenoblade looked back when it released. When did Nintendo players become so obsessed with
graphics?
I remember when EA was showing off gameplay for the Dead Space remake, at first I saw some people say it looked barely like an upgrade. Then they showed
comparisons to the original and then those guy's shut up when they realize that the remake only looks what they thought the original looked like.
The world looks "better" because the bionis' design and scale was extremely impressive. The graphics are not better. The textures look like shit unless you're
looking from miles away, and that's where the bionis shines
I can agree with that, pokemon should be doing better but people will buy it anyway because it's pokemon. It's the same reason why sports games and call of duty
keep releasing very similar games every iteration. Money talks and the consumer has shown that they will buy the same thing so why work harder when they can do
less and still sell millions of copies off the name alone?
Skyward Sword og looked like it had vaseline smeared on the screen and you can actually count the polys on Xenoblade. Nostalgia makes things prettier than they
are.
> I honestly think Xenoblade Chronicles looks better than this

Then you're either blind or have really piss-poor taste.
Instead they'll point to criticisms of these games as justification for going back to a completely linear model.
I mean look at the history of the franchise. How much polish and creativity has been invested into the campaign? Or has it been dumbed down and simplified more
and more as the years go by? Now contrast with the battle mechanics. How much has the meta been shaken up? How many times has GF gone with bold choices
like blowing up the pokemon available to change the meta, or introduced and abandoned mechanics with new generations?

On the PVE side of things abandoning mechanics is a bad thing, on the PVP side changing mechanics constantly keeps it fresh. A significant portion of the battle
mechanics are never even used in the singleplayer campaign, the main format (duos) are barely featured in the single player game.
Huge compared to what? It's definitely on the smaller end of competitive communities.
Yes, say what you will about Ubisoft's gameplay / recycling, but their art teams are top notch, some of the best in the AAA business.
That's because it's the same game every time, reskinned. Couple mil in mocap and map design and voila. Same shit, now in a new package! 2x more map icons for
the same price!
they're really not though. What's far more likely is they've already made a deal with GF that they'll have the game out by a certain deadline so that they can spin up
production on schedule. The actual games themselves while still huge, are only a fraction of the money that the franchise makes at this point. And as such they
don't have as much sway over the timeframe of this stuff as they probably should
Look at Lindhardts eyebrows on his model

Three Houses did an excellent job of focussing on the aspects that looked nice. The voice acting was amazing and character portraits were great and took your
view much more strongly than the awkward robotic animations, weird warped backgrounds, and awful character models.
Fair. I was thinking more about textures and environment design, which is what I think the real weak point is here.
Yes everything is irrelevant when talking about Game Freak - all comparisons, all parameters, all launch dates and development cycles and consoles' hardware
power, everything. Because they live on their own parallel universe, where every 2 or 3 years imbeciles will buy their drivel like hotcakes. That's why any
comparison to be made across the gaming industry is irrelevant to Game Freak. When you launch a 2022 console game that look worse than five year old mobile
smartphone games, what is even there to compare? Might as well just wing it.
do you mean the CG trailer of Link shooting a guardian?

Zelda BOTW was in development since 2012
They work on two at a time, although I don't know if they have two teams or more. There's no way to keep up an almost yearly release schedule with just one team.
Haven't really seen and confirmation one way or the other. The trailers make it look open world, but since they aren't pushing that messaging in the marketing it's
probably more likely to be hub zones.
We'll definitely have a better Pokedex with the underground areas, but unfortunately with their track record I doubt we'll get the updated story and battle frontier.
And a dozen side areas added for various legendary Pokemon
God of War and Spiderman are narrative based games. You take on a specific role in a specific story. That story has emotional moments where voice acting can
have a real impact.

Most Nintendo games aren't really like that. Mario doesn't have a deep emotional core. You are Mario. You jump on things. Any narrative to a Mario game stays
cute and lighthearted. The enemies in the God of War series are God's who tried/are trying to kill your family. The villains in Mario Odyssey are evil wedding
planning bunnies.

The lack of voice acting makes it easier to keep things cute and lighthearted. The character models are more expressive (think Windwaker) and instead of dialog
you can include moments of slapstick (think Mario and Bowser competing over Peach at the end of Odyssey). The restrictions can breed creativity and humor (like
the no voice acting Lego games).

I also believe it's true that God of War and Spiderman had to make tradeoffs when they included voice acting. Mainly on the amount of characters and interactions
you can have with those characters. Pretty much every model in BoTW has a few paragraphs worth of dialog. Every trainer you fight in Pokemon has a few lines
both before and after the fight.. Whereas I imagine individual city goers in Spiderman might have a few generic voice lines they all swap between. Voice acting can
add depth to characters, but because of cost constraints you tend to lose breadth.

Though I admit I am someone who tends to dislike voice acting (especially RPG's) and would much rather have silent protagonists, or a good old fashioned dialog
tree, than a voiced protagonist. I recognize thats not typical.
They literally been in the business for decades without voice acting. They sold billions of product without voice acting as a core component.

Voice acting would help yes, but Nintendo's craft doesn't need it.
are grunts and moans partial voice acting? Because then pikachu saying "pika" counts too lol.
Is there a ton of fan discontent? On Reddit, sure, and on Twitter and YouTube as well, but off of the internet? The games all sell extremely well. The anime is still
watched; the cards are still bought. PoGo still sees people come out for Community Days and has made a billion dollars every year since its release.

Sites like Reddit thrive on outrage culture. It’s really good at getting people angry and definitely attracts a lot of people who like to be angry. So it may seem like the
discontent is there because on a site that builds discontent, most top comments are hyper-critical. In the real world, most people don’t give a shit.
Yep, only one weakness, but 8 resists, alongside a 70/100/80 bulk makes Scizor pretty tanky against anything that isn't a Flamethrower.
The singular exception to a fairly small new pokedex
I barely used them. The cutscenes get boring after a time so I'd only occasionally use the ones that were tied to a specific pokemon (alolan legends, the shiny dusk
Lycanroc I bred, Mimikyu etc.)
Huh! Wild you say thst because mega sableeye was one of my favorites, as was mawile.
Oh man couldn’t disagree more, love their designs
Let's Go has a much less impressive scale than Legends. It isn't a great excuse, but it is the reason. Gamefreak don't know how to make console scale games and
it shows
because of scale. Let's Go is a tiny game that can use that memory for heavier, better looking assets. Arceus is an ambitious game that paired with Gamefreak's
incompetence AND Switch's completely outdated trashy hardware specs... it's a different story entirely
Oh ya that as well. I know so many devs in the industry (superr talented) that would love to work on a Pokemon game. Never heard of anyone that even knows
anyone that knows someone whos worked on one, they are so weird and closed off.
Almost none of the Spin off games were made by GameFreak.
No, I said what I meant. It absolutely does. Arceus is one of the worst looking games to come out in ages.
The original comment you responded to didn't say Xenoblade on the Wii had better graphics. It just said it looked better. You made the leap to graphics.

I was just trying to support /u/playergt's point by saying that a game can look better(in some ways) even if it has worse graphics.
On Switch almost everything was redone and it looks much, much better.

I played the game for the first time with the remake and I decided to go back and look at the Wii version and I was like *damn*, they put in a lot of legwork for this
one.
Original Dead Space is really helped by the fact the lighting is just great in that game which helps cover for that even with considering it's a 2008 game that needed
to run on both a 360 and PS3, the textures and models are all kinda meh .
I heard some streamers saying things like— “*thats not what the original looks like— must be the capture device or the stream washing it out*”. I jump back and
forth game generations pretty frequently and yeah, some 360/PS3 games look like dogshit to me now.
That's the sad truth. Franchises like that don't need to be good every year to make money, They just need to release every year. You see the top 10 switch games
on most polls? SWSH was nowhere near em. So people are fully aware they aren't good games, but they still make money despite being mediocre
Imo XC biggest issue is the character models, but the world looks great.

The remake shows Monolithsoft weakness when it comes to character models back then, glad with XC2 they finally found a style that they can make work off.
Xenoblade had in particular fantastic expansive environments that looked interesting with compelling landscapes- which so far Arceus kinda struggles with. But
that's the only advantage it has
Is it setting twitch streaming records or outstripping FGCs at EVO? No. Has there been a formal competitive scene with a dedicated core group for over two
decades? Yes. I don't have numbers but just common sense tells you that there's a huge scene given the healthy engagement on smogon, showdown, VGC, and
reddit. I mean shit, I grew up in bumfuck nowhere Central America and we had a dedicated comp scene in the 00s. Pokemon is global and the competitive scene is
all over the planet.
Also the awful cutscenes, they were really bad to the point that it made the Smash reveal trailer for Byleth be boring
No, the one with Aonuma and Miyamoto playing through a bit of the game.
[I'm sure he's talking about this one.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SECWlFInyFM)
What successful Nintendo games lack in story and character they make up for not just in gameplay, but in aesthetic, audio design, soundtrack. This Pokemon
Arceus game doesn't seem like it will excel in anything unfortunately.
Yes, they were also in business making 8 bit games, but times change, and so does craft.

I would argue that telling a compelling narrative can be an essential part of a game, and that voice acting can seriously advance that goal. To your point the gaming
market is incredibly competitive and I’m just surprised that they’re not interested in doing everything they can to advance their games.
They definitely are. Imagine Super Mario 64 without any voice acting. There's even a really iconic way of saying Yahoo! And Mama mía! That came from that game.
And yes, Pikachu saying pika or other Pokémon and their cries are fine. Sound design in battles is actually really good, but you spend a lot of time in the overworld
interacting with people for them to not have any voices or anything.
>Sites like Reddit thrive on outrage culture.

This bears repeating. I frequently question whether people on Reddit even enjoy the actual act of gaming in the first place
It was also a new evolution for the Pokémon that has the most evolutions.
Mega Gyarados It looks like a flying shrimp/kite
Scale be damned, they can use the billions in funding to expand operations
I’m not a game dev but I’d assume (and someone can correct me if I’m wrong) this is exactly it. Let’s Go having more contained areas, the top-down camera
resulting in only a small number of tiles in the player’s view at a given point, and buildings to serve as loading zones between areas (along with simpler geometry
and textures for the overworld) would make it significantly easier to optimize and keep the game running at a consistent frame rate than an open area where the
player can look into the distance in pretty much any direction.

Not defending GameFreak of course because SwSh had unacceptable levels of slowdown and object pop-in (specifically with Pokémon themselves since in certain
areas they unload by taking like 3 steps away from them), as did LGPE as another user commented, but it’s not really a fair comparison to make.
If any of those people are fluent in Japanese, then they should consider applying at Game Freak. I checked and [it looks like they have tons of open positions right
now](https://hrmos.co/pages/gamefreak/jobs?jobType=FULL).
I'm sorry but in no world does Arceus looks like [that](https://i.ibb.co/zGKGDhP/3ds.png)

You're just being dramatic and of bad faith
Yeah but we could spend the whole day naming games that look better than newer games. Wind Waker looks 10x better than Xenoblade, for example.
I think the biggest thing for me is the UI. The old UI looks terrible and also takes up about a quarter of the screen
Same, I play 360 games pretty often due to the BC on my Series X and yeah that generation visually is pretty much defined by low res textures, 720P resolution,
sub 30 FPS and of course art styles that make it look even more poorly aged.
Nintendo has 5 titles on the Switch that sold more than the best selling title on the PS4 (Uncharted 4 at 16 million last we heard). The market is competitive, but
Nintendo games sell a ton despite not having much voice acting/deep narratives.

You may prefer compelling narratives with voice acting, but the majority of people who buy Mario, Zelda, Pokemon or whatever else clearly don't considering many
of those titles sell millions even years after release.

So why would Nintendo start using voice acting, when their games already are hugely profitable? I really don't think they'll see that big an increase in sales from just
adding voice acting for most of their games.
But none of the dialogue in mario games is voiced. Even in paper mario where there is a bunch, and no one complains. But as soon as it's pokemon people want it
to be a compilation of the best features in every other first party nintendo game.

Better hope a strong wind doesn't blow and knock over your Mega Manectric
He said quite a few 3DS games look better. And they do. There are quite a few gorgeous 3DS games.

Sun and Moon is not one of them. Sun and Moon looked like completely horse shit when it came out. Still does.

Arceus looks comparatively worse than most games
I'm gonna be serious with you and while Sun and Moon are lower resolutions, I think it looks better aesthetically. The characters look less out of place and it doesn't
look as sad when its only the barren landscape and 20 blades of grass.
>The characters look less out of place

Because they’re really shitty models on a 240p resolution screen.

I think gacha games are really stressfull for players, and some of them dont even notice or dont want to admit it. Like yeah its your money and you get to do what
you want with it, but spending money hoping to get something and not getting it has to be really shitty. Developers should (and most of the time they do) thread a
fine line where the players are happy but are left wanting for more. What could seem as small things like the anniversary or events may seem trivial, but for players
that are incresingly frustrated by the games mechanics, this type of fumbles tend to be the drop that overflows the glass. One would hope the developers would
listen to the consumers in a way where both parties are left happy, but this doesnt seem to be the case.
For those who don't play these types of games. This is what's happening.

The anniversaries are basically THE best time to play gacha games. There's usually tons of rewards, content, special banners, bonuses and all sorts of other stuff.
Basically just a big celebration.

It's been a standard for years that during this time all the stops get pulled and everyone has a great time.

But for whatever reason Mihoyo decided to barely even acknowledged that it's happening. The only thing we got was a little clipshow of your stats from the past
year + one 10 pull (a mechanic in gacha games where you try to get a character, 10 is basically nothing)

Everyone is very upset to say the least

edit: oh also they had a fan art contest with absolutely laughable rewards, it's honestly too stupid to even mention
If anyone should read this comment before going too far into the comment section. All the comments are just people complaining about people complaining,
literally. Lots of high horses. Nothing to see you can move on.
the audience rating for games has basically been turned into a review for how well the developers are catering to the players, and not a review of the game itself.
I've got news for you. You're playing a game specifically designed to milk as much money out of you as possible. Don't be surprised that the studio is not your
friend
If you cultivate a bunch of rats pressing levers to get food pellets as your audience, I think you deserve the occasional rat uprising, flat-out. I don't even need details.
The game is successful enough that they don’t need to waste time on an anniversary event to bait you into spending more money. They already know you’re going
to spend the money regardless. Congrats, you fell for their scam.
This game makes me really, really sad. Everything about it is right up my alley: Very fun, diverse combat, great visual style, immersive world etc. etc.

&#x200B;

But why oh why, did you HAVE to basically make it a legal gambling simulator???? I think I actually would have preferred a p2w approach. now it's like pay to
maybe win.
It's really shitty but what do you expect? They've finessed your money away, they don't give a shit about you. And they know you'll keep paying to play.
I was wondering when the players would start turning against this game. It lasted a lot more than I thought as far as F2P goes... usually they start complaining after
day 1.

EDIT: to be clear I am making fun of anyone complaining about a free game they can quit anytime they want. I don't care if devs listen or not, stop spending your
days ranting on Twitter and go play something else.
I love the gameplay of Genshin, but holy shit is it insane how much you have to pay to get cool stuff. You are often looking at $100+ to get one copy of a new
character, and new characters come out every month or so. It adds up quick if you want to unlock everyone.

Not to mention, you actually need 7 copies of a character to unlock all their upgrades. You can easily be looking at $2000+ to get 7 copies of a character.

And THEN, if you want a characters signature weapon, you are looking at likely another $100+ dollars. If you want to get all the upgrades for the weapon you need
5 copies. I never go for weapons, so I’m not exactly sure how much you would have to spend, but I know the odds are worse than characters. You are definitely
looking at thousands of dollars to get the max updated weapon for a character.

Repeat that every few weeks when a new character comes out and you can be spending over 100k on this stupid ass game in no time if you want all the cool stuff.

It’s insane anyone supports this fucking system. They deserve every 1 star review they get. I get it. It’s a free game. They gotta make money. But needing to spend
10s of thousands of dollars to upgrade one character all the way is unacceptable. Games like fortnite/Apex manage to make shit tons of money by selling
cosmetics. Genshin is popular enough it could switch to something more consumer friendly like that too.
I played this game a bit after my friends who also played the game pestered me about it. Now I love open-world games. Throw me the shittiest AAA open-world
game you can find, Assassin’s Creed, Dragon Age Inquisition, the subpar Activision Spider-Man games, against all expectations, I’ll enjoy them. And I loved
Genshin’s world, with all its collect-a-thons & puzzles & whatnot, but the gacha mechanic really killed it for me.

I get that it’s a F2P game, and I’m not going to argue that Mihoyo will overall prioritise milking its fanbase over anything else. Unfortunate, but that’s how the F2P
industry works.

I would have spent a lot more time exploring the world if the gacha (and all its relevant GaaS stuff) system wasn’t there. I want to play the game, but chance and
rolls are really not my cup of tea, especially if it’s tied to how far I can get into the game. I envy my friends who can just dive into the game, spend hundreds of
hours on it, and still have the discipline to watch their spending on the MTX.
I get why people would be disappointed. But is this worth review bombing over?
So… people feel entitled to free stuff because they… played at a certain time?
Genshin actually has the most entitled gaming community I've ever seen.

I've played gacha games for years and, yeah, I do get that anniversaries are often big events. But it's not universal, it's not like theirs is awful, and it's not a big deal
either way. They didn't overpromise or underdeliver, people are just on a hair trigger there, the genshin community legitimately has at least one major controversy
per month and despite that they don't quit, they keep paying for the game and keep getting mad about something a few weeks later.

If the community ever dropped down to just the people who actually enjoy the game without flying off the handle every week, I have to imagine it'd still be massively
successful but go instantly from having the most toxic to a great community.

[removed]
Played for like a week before I knew being a fan of this game would be like being in an abusive relationship. Stingy doesn't even begin to describe it.

There's some good work that's been put into the game, but it's ultimately soulless and mediocre.
Why is 'review bombing' considered news nowadays?

Giving attention to the type of people who review bomb games is probably not the best idea..

Also, who gives a shit about reviews anymore. Find yourself a content creator &/or a streamer whose opinions are less jaded than a journalists and gauge your
opinions that way.


Like the **moment** I heard you can make a review on MetaCritic without actual proof you own the game, I've since considered it an unreliable source for reviews. I
could, right now, spit out a 2 hour effort hate-review for RDR2 without actually physically touching the game myself. This review can, and will, gain traction and likely
meet the eyes of someone who just wants to read a casual review.


That is the entirety of Metacritic. I'd go as far to say that likely over half of those effort-reviews are likely just fake. Can't really prove it when there isn't really a way
to fact-check if anyone actually owns those games. In my eyes, it's completely just a fandom-ran forum site that disguises itself as a review site.
People surprised that a game designed around greed and making money is continuing down the path of greed and making money? Never could've seen it coming.
I'm sure Mihoyo is wiping the tears from their cheeks with the fad wads of money they've made.

Lets be honest, they dont give a shit.
I enjoyed Genshin Impact from what I played. But the Gacha element I never really got. I don't get why you'd roll. Yeah there's characters but you don't need them
to complete the game AFAIK. And there's loot but you get loot in the game anyway and you can upgrade them with stuff you find exploring/leveling/questing.

I don't get how people can blow hundreds on it. What are you hunting for? Most of the characters seem to just be random characters with no story or lore except for
the exceptionally rare ones.
Don't forget they also [harass voice actors for playing a healer that doesn't do as much damage as a dps.](https://www.sportskeeda.com/esports/kokomi-s-voice-
actor-restricts-livestream-genshin-impact-fans-harass-character-s-unpopularity)

Gacha gamers are all the worst qualities of CS:GO and WoW players combined with weeb creepiness added in.
Mihoyo is getting review bombed because they are so stingy they can't even do a proper anniversary event. The review bombing in this case is pretty warranted
since it is BS to do not give out freebies and stuff to hype up the anniversary.
it's cute that people thought Mihoyo will even remotely care to hold decent events after earning like a billion dollars of a shitty Zelda ripoff with some of the worst
gacha mechanics in the genre
Maybe letting corporations exploit the brain chemistry of our children for profit was a bad idea
A quote from the FIFA review applies here, these games have "morally bankrupt monetization"
Yeah it's a gambling addiction
Though still predatory in it's own way, at least in a game like Fortnite you can just buy the skin you want. I wish f2p games were more like that and less like
Genshin.
I played many hours of Genshin Impact and didn't spend a dime. You can either make it stressfull or enjoy the game for 0 bucks. Your choice literally
Gacha games only work as well as they do due to exiting human psychology and horribly outdated laws that don't properly regulate all kinds of gambling, digital or
gaming (CCG) etc.

At some point, I really hope the laws come crashing down on them and they're forced to come up with a fair monetization (some companies have already moved
away from loot boxes and gachas and done great but not enough). I don't mind paying fair prices for my entertainment but every gacha / mtx game is outrageously
overpriced and generally still treats their customers as enemies
I just want to add that in this particular case there have been a number of other issues people have been unhappy about, and it all came to a boiling point with the
lackluster anniversary. Issues such as:

bugs and quality of life changes that people have been requesting fixes for, some for many months; some bugs affect characters that might cost $100s to get
acquire;

recent poorly developed characters marred by artifically clunky gameplay, antisynergistic interactions between different facets of the character’s gameplay, or
generally underpowered (leading to “reverse powercreep”);

recent main story that feels rushed with character decisionmaking that doesn’t quite make ingame logical sense, tell rather than show method to the storyline, and
focus on NPC characters rather than the expected main characters;

questionable/anticonsumer communication wherein a beneficial gameplay interaction between a new character and a previous character was cut out but not
communicated to the players until after people have started spending money trying to get the new character; instead of fixing the issue, the company decided to
reword the character’s skill

general lack of communication - not only not fixing many of the bugs but not even acknowledging they exist; not putting forth a roadmap or what to expect;

and finally, the anniversary to tie it all together.
I put a few hours into a card game like Hearthstone, so I have an idea of the dumb bullshit that I will never feel like bothering with; Hearthstone was more
entertaining to watch people play with the cards you'd never get though.

Though actually with Genshin Impact I didn't actually make it far enough to get to that point, I didn't like that the game kept filling the world with chests and such so
it meant I always had to do work to get them off my map because I *HATE* having icons like that on my map. So after I did a bunch and came back the next day
more spawned, I just didn't want to bother with that.

Excessive loot to me is only fine in an aRPG where you can at least sort of easily sell stuff and sort through trash.
The one time I read an article instead of reddit comments and it doesn't actually say what the company did to make the players mad without going to another article
lol. Thanks for the actual info
I saw a post showing evidence that the clips how of stats is also mostly fake. A guy with a complete fresh account with 0 kills, and another guy who's very low level
(with like 50 kills) had the stat thing show that they were top 10% of players kill-wise. So it says top 10% no matter what.
Let's not forget the complete silence from the devs for months.

No roadmap, hardly any QoL changes, bugs that haven't been fixed for months, no fixes to persisting in-game issues, no interaction at all with the playerbase, etc.
It's a big deal in Japanese gacha games, that might be the difference.
“For whatever reason”

Can you just say profits and greed lol
At least it's not FEH where one anniversary they introduced a paid subscription pass.
This is the silliest thing I can imagine to get very upset about
What about the Moonchase Festival? It seems like a fun event to me so far.
Sounds like shitty entitlement. *"How dare they not give us more free stuff?!"*
What? Lol. Who cares? They're mad that they don't get free stuff in a game
Sounds like a massive non issue or absolutely minor disappointment at most.

What you have described is just a little bit of a let down. Get over it your an adult. Probably. - it would be understandable if all of the outrage was coming from
people under 15
Everyone just wants free shit to further their addiction to gacha.

Kind of sad really.
I wouldn’t say 10 pulls is nothing in Genshin as it is a guaranteed 4-star from the current banner. Comparing rewards in genshin can’t be done 1-1 with other
Gachas due to the difference in number of units and what all is contained with each unit.
The first vibe I get from every gatcha game is that the publisher doesn't like players, and thinks we are a necessary evil.
Genshin is in a fairly unique position in the mobile gacha market.

Their production quality towers over the rest of the gacha market and the only gacha games that barely matches the AAA-production, open-world combat, BotW
exploration and puzzles, quality 3D modelling, animations, trailers and providing new experiences that Genshin has in the mobile market are MiHiYo's past game,
Honkai Impact 3rd (Which plays more like a arena battler with some small open world sections) and Punishing Gray Raven, a competitor aimed at Honkai players
but not Genshin Impact.

The other games in the gacha market are either 2D side scrollers, 2D Turn-based RPGs or Training simulators, which while are very good, they simply don't
compare to the what Genshin offers or just rehashes of what is already in the market.

You're right that anniversaries are usually celebrated times in a gacha games, but it is hard to take users seriously that compare Genshin's 1st anniversary, to other
established gacha games, for example **Fate Grand Order**, **Granblue Fantasy**, **Epic Seven**, **Azur Lane**, **Fire Emblem Heroes** and Mihoyo's own
**Honkai Impact 3rd** which have been around between 4-6 years of operation and thus celebrating those anniversaries which shower you with rewards because
they're needed to retain their player base. Because if you look hard enough to look the games I've mentioned first's anniversaries, they **suck** or offer very similar
to what Genshin has to offer for their first anniversary.

I also want to add that a lot of these gacha games have some pretty terrible P2W PvP mechanics or ones that are designed to force you to play for hours on end to
receive the best rewards or new characters or units that constantly powercreep and obsolete your previous units or make new units of the characters that are
stronger than the older version. Genshin only has one end-game content and that is a time trial, which while does get harder as the game receives updates, is fairly
doable to fully finish with good planning and unit composition, whereas the ones mentioned above, you better hope you spent enough to beat the other players, luck
out on a meta unit or spend more time than other players.

Honestly, Genshin has one of the worst gacha community in the market, and I'd say its worse than that of league or call of duty. **Players that play Genshin are
fully in their right to complain for better rewards**, but they seem to be delusional that a company that has made it big will give something better than their
competitors.
This whole thing is really strange, as a few months back, communication between players and developers like... hard stopped. Monthly promo codes disappeared,
little in-depth discussions disappeared, and some very legitimate feedback started getting ignored when they used to be really, really dedicated to balance. This has
led to some really bizarre balancing decisions and just where otherwise they'd be working on making some of the terrible new bosses better, or the super dungeon
being completely messed up in terms of difficulty, they've just ignored all complaints.

Don't read this as me supporting the hate train, it's frankly pathetic and there are delusional people who think that MiHoYo will drop development which is multiple
levels of failing to grasp how big of a project Genshin is.

But it still sucks massively by how weird they've been with the community. The lack of rewards isn't even the worst part, recently they've taken to begging for fan art
and cosplays on a level that I don't think I've ever seen. Lots of companies source fan-art and fan work for their games, but it genuinely seemed like this was in lieu
of doing... any work themselves, then had the balls to give people who worked hard for their free advertising **a CHANCE** at an ingame item.

I honestly think a lot of it is the whiplash from actually decent developer feedback to NONE.
either Mihoyo is braindead or this is all according to their plan and I am not just talking about the anniversary

from what I've heard Genshin has probably the most abysmal rates from any gatcha... its so popular that even a guy who doesn't play gatchas (me) played and
even liked it... thanks to that AND it being multiplatform, Mihoyo is literally swimming in money... yet the game doesn't even feel like it
Why is this an issue? Genuinely curious. I play saga re universe and their anniversaries are always filled with free currency… but I wouldn’t be mad if they
weren’t… I’d just play it as normal. Where is it written that they have to give away free stuff at certain times?
Yeah, just looks like opportunists wanting to deliver drive-by snarky comments again. Thanks for the heads up.
Yup, this thread is just full of people who seem to have no experience in gatcha games or know how such anniversary events go in similar games.
Not even it's players, sometimes just a player. I remember The game AI The Sonimum Files was reviewed bombed by one person because the game didn't have
enough of his favourite waifu.
It's essentially the only way for game players to actually get responses is why. Game studios since forever largely just ignore or shout down their players, reviews
actually have an impact.

To be fair though, I think reviews *should* address holistic concerns. If there was a restaurant that had really great food, just top-tier, but the owners just randomly
punch their staff and customers, I'd want that to be a factor in the reviews, because fuck that. Maybe Diablo 4 will be fun but I'm not going to support a company
that is causing suicides to make pew-pew games when there are a bajillion fantastic games a month coming out from people that aren't psychotic.
The problem people have is that this game designed to milk money is being way more stingy than the other games that are also designed to milk money in a similar
way.
I just want controller support on Android.
What baffles me is some people actually like Gacha as a "Genre", too. Don't get me wrong, I've played Genshin and it's an incredible game aside from it's Gacha,
but that's just it, why would anyone \*want\* the Gacha part?
Except the other gacha games designed to milk your money isn't nearly as stringent.
But there is a run of the mill open world game attached!
It’s not even pay to win, there’s nothing worth winning in the endgame, not even Spiral Abyss. I ended up quitting after I built some good teams because I realized
that barring some massive upset to the elemental system, I no longer had any reason to care about future banners or events.
As much i like seeing this game being burn to the ground so that Mihoyo would listen to our feedback

The outrage will only lasted for a week mark my word, they brush it after they drop another character banner and the player will drop another 100$ or 1000$ as
usual

Gacha gamers are a different breed
Trust me, people have been complaining ever since the game launched. It's just that these loud minorities aren't usually big enough to make a difference given how
massively popular the game is, and I don't think this is going to be any different.
[removed]
I think its because it attracts people who aren't used to gacha who kind of just accept it because thwy don't know how bad this is compared to other gacha.
You don’t have to pay that much to get good characters and the constellations aren’t required. Ive spent maybe 30 dollars on the game between welkin and the
battlepass and between that and what you get just by playing the game I have a decent number of characters including ones I’ve intentionally rolled for.
When we've played dozens of these games, we are either hopelessly addicted with wallets open (and hopefully there's at least the income to match), or gacha
marketing is largely white noise and the wallets are mostly closed, with focus on the free gameplay available on a live service model (updates every 1, 2, 4, 6
weeks to varying levels). It gets to the point of players going "Oh I've saved up X months of currency, what's the new unit? Oh a tank? Oh a great one with a new
mechanic that's meta? Yeah but its a tank. I have a tank and I use it in PvP/tower/raid/challengemode/whatever and its fine, and I don't love the character's
looks/story/design, so I'll pass." (that's pass on free currency, let alone buying more) then they move on for X more weeks/months. Gacha preys hard on one's lack
of self control, but damn if it isn't a great practice for succeeding at it.

&#x200B;

EDIT: Example, I'm pulling for Genshin's new Inazuma region characters only for passive fun and filling the Battle Pass faster (they include a mission for 50 gacha
pulls). That's not incentive to spend money/more money, but it is using my free gems. I can just as well not do this, but whatever, getting a newer character could be
nice. But I don't love the gist of Inazuma's characters so after my 50, I withheld and will wait for October, November, perhaps longer. I've played off and on, with
only spending being Moon and Battle Pass (also off and on), and I have the majority of characters because its just what eventually happens. The lower spending
has helped a good bit in that, but I'd still have several enjoyable characters by now if everything was the same except I was F2P.

&#x200B;

This is not a great system, its not even good, but its definitely much less bad if you have a fitting mindset. I still use, and upgrade, Anemo Traveller. Because I like
him, he's usable, I got him at the start, and I most easily know what to expect from him. Anemo reacts with most things and I'm not a competitive endgamer so it
works for me, though I can see myself shifting to Geo and Electro Traveller next year if I'm still playing. That's a very F2P experience there, despite all the great
units I've picked up (some 4stars at max constellation). I like hearing Traveller's voice and feeling more immersion in quests. It works.
"Review bombing" has turned into a generic term for "reviews complaining about a topic that doesn't bother me personally".
I don't really agree with the term review bombing. But for me if you are not satisfied with something in a game. It's only fair to leave a negative review.



Personally I wouldn't bother to leave one in this case. But people have different mindsets.
*Anything* is worth review-bombing over, if you put your mind to it. :)
the anniversary is a big deal in gacha games
The anniversary is just the "tipping point". If the game was fine otherwise, people wouldn't be freaking out. It's 1. the lack of communication, 2. the insane resource
gating (resin), 3. RNG reliance (artifacts), 4. lack of QoL features and unfixed bugs for major character aspects, and 5. the nature of gacha limiting progression. I
lump all of those "issues" in category A.

Category B is the complete lack of communication from Mihoyo. That is why all of this has boiled over, with the anniversary as the catalyst.
Nerds have no life, sink 100's of hours into a game and then give it 1 star because they feel entitled.
They're also entitled to [harrass the voice actors of characters they don't like.](https://www.sportskeeda.com/esports/kokomi-s-voice-actor-restricts-livestream-
genshin-impact-fans-harass-character-s-unpopularity)
The problem is that Genshin exploded in popularity and brought in a bunch of people who have never played gachas before, hence the extreme reactions by
people who have no clue how (some) of this stuff is the norm for gachas as a genre.

As for the lack of a proper anniversary celebration...yeah, that's a big mistake on Mihoyo's part.
This feels more like a result of a series of disappointing releases than a singular issue. Genshin's had a pretty rough patch. Inazuma's exploration part was great,
but its main quest was really badly written, then the new characters were kinda lackluster and wonky, so people seemed pretty annoyed even before this non-
existent anniversary. So I'd say that Mihoyo has, in fact, been underdelivering for a while now.
Im actually curious what gacha game do you even play to have low expectation for anniv

I play most popular gacha games for almost 4 years and the only terrible anniv was the FGO one
>Genshin actually has the most entitled gaming community I've ever seen.

For gacha games, yeah. There's been a huge uptick of people complaining about gacha stuff in general like the bad rates and character designs because Genshin
has brought in lots of westerners to these types of games. Genshin does have pretty awful pulling rates though.
This is also the community that routinely harasses its voice actors over literally anything. It's really not a big surprise that they're throwing a fit now from not getting
enough free rewards.
It baffles me how a free to play PvE skill-based action RPG can have fans that are mad from these kind of things. I played pay to play games that are worse than GI
and I never complained, I either accepted the mistakes and moved on or ignored the game if it's too much to keep me entertained.
It's pretty damn universal, and yeah, theirs is *pretty fucking awful*.
I'd go as far as to say we don't need reviews when we have gameplay footage and demos to judge a game by
I mean yeah. Anniverary events are usually the time where the company goes "Thank you for letting us be greedy and milk you for all you were worth this past year!
To show our appreciation here's one week were we give back! Let us show our appreciation for your wallets by giving them a break so we can prime them for the
coming year!" Needless to say, the usual appreciation isn't felt.

Happy cake day.
Same as anything else with microtransactions. People want something they don't have. Even in CS:GO where the only differences are cosmetic, people have spent
thousands for skins
These kinds of games getting increasingly popular and more normalized make me worry if we might be raising a new generation of addicts... Sure, people can get
addicted to "normal" games, too (or anything pleasurable, really), but modern f2p games are a slightly different, more concerning beast:

They actually employ professionals that have the exploitation of the addict's brain down to an art. And unlike the vices of old, these dealers now can automatically
send notifications right to your phone and you can get your "fix" right there, even to children.

It's fucking insane, man.
Maybe the flattening of the entire subjective human experience into
a lifeless exchange of value that benefits nobody, except for a handful of bug-eyed salamanders in Silicon Valley... Maybe that as a way of life forever... maybe
that’s not good.
Thanks to China for actually fighting it.
Hasn't the EU banned lootboxes?
> A quote from the FIFA review applies here, these games have "morally bankrupt monetization"

FIFA and Genshin are completely opposite sides of the spectrum when it comes to monetization.

You can literally play 99% of Genshin and not pay a dime.
Well Azur Lane is an exceedingly generous gatcha where you can get all of the units without paying and the vast majority of their monetization comes from skin
sales. They even actively discourage you from buying the Roll currency though it is a possibility to do so.
And you only get to play it like that because some other sap is having their brain exploited and paying enough for hundreds/thousands of others.
Imagine yourself being a little younger then, or a little unhappier or less educated or whatever. Your free experience is bankrolled by the game being exploitative.
Chest dont respawn now and never did.
And they certainly aren't marked on the map.
Only renewable resources in the game is Resin aka Energy and flowers/ores/trees etc.
> Though actually with Genshin Impact I didn't actually make it far enough to get to that point, I didn't like that the game kept filling the world with chests and such
so it meant I always had to do work to get them off my map because I HATE having icons like that on my map. So after I did a bunch and came back the next day
more spawned, I just didn't want to bother with that.

I don't think you played Genshin because the game definitely doesn't put treasure chest icon on the map, and they don't even respawn either.
That’ll teach you a lesson about the dangers of actually reading the article instead just jumping straight to the comments to be outraged!
TBF it did say what's up:

>Early complaints began in late August with rumblings over Mihoyo's planned anniversary rewards not being as generous as other mobile games and generally not
meeting expectations.

It just makes no sense to a console gamer because the concept of annivery rewards isn't a thing. It'd be like your pparents reading about a review bombing and
having to explain what that is before explaining what it's doing to this specific game.
I think the comments tend to be better when the article is about fan rage. You are bound to get a good list of greviences from a fan that breaks down why people
are upset, far moreso than a journal that might not be as invested.

It's hard to just walk into a community and understand in an hour a relationship fans have spent months or more building.
> had the stat thing show that they were top 10% of players kill-wise. So it says top 10% no matter what.

Is it like many gacha games where you get a free pull right at the start? In games I've played in the past, some players will reroll *tons* of times trying to get a good
first pull. If they're counting those abandoned accounts in the stats then top 10% could be accurate, but just meaningless.
This is the bigger deal. The lack of meaningful endgame content aside from the abyss is a minor, recurring annoyance. Broken abilities, balance issues for newer
characters, resin massively gating resources, RNG reliance for artifacts, and the lack of QoL changes are indeed the real culprits here. The anniversary is the straw
that broke the camel's back here. People were honestly "fine" until the super undignified fan events were announced (IIRC one gave out half a pull for 10% of fan
art submitted; randomly decided).

The solution for literally all of this? Communication. Mihoyo has done a *god awful* job of communicating. Things will only get worse until that changes.
Wow. I'm glad I bailed after finishing the Monstadt stuff and getting only about halfway into the Liyue stuff. Sounds like I saved myself a lot of time and hassle by not
trying to stick with it.
completely mailing in and screwing up the most recent story content too
Based on how the fanbase in general acts, i wonder if the devs just hate them lol. So many entitled, toxic, self-righteous assholes who are extremely vocal about a
ton of nonsense.
i would agree if Mihoyo did not have another gacha game Honkai impact which had a proper anniversary
It's not unique to Japanese games. Chinese games also do a decent bit for anniversaries. Arknights, Girls Frontline, Azur Lane and Honkai Impact off the top of my
head all had big events going on during their respective servers' anniversaries. Shit, Azur Lane goes an extra mile and has like 3 anniversary celebrations a year (of
varying size obviously) because they have one each for the chinese, japanese and global servers and have those events launch on all servers simultaneously.
No its not

Guardian Tales ( Korea ) and Arknight ( Chinese ) have good anniv reward and content

Hell even Mihoyo own game Honkai have good anniv

The point is : Anniversary in gacha is a huge celebration giving freebies and content is a bog standard, not only in japan but the whole gacha gaming around the
world
Japanese gacha games also only spend pocket change to develop the game itself and have a new gacha game out every couple days. Most Japanese gacha
games don't even make it a year.
is it? Pokemon Masters gave 100 pulls for free + like 10k in gems and that's a japanese gacha game. FE Heroes is also similar in what it gives
Even Girls Frontline, a Team MICA gacha game from China, has given out a free 5-star event character every time they have an anniversary event.

It's not like they can't just drop a freebie from the permabanner. Would placate like 99% of players. Most have gotten a few of those but likely not the one or two
they actually want.
It's ENTIRELY normal in Chinese ones too...
No way, if it was for profits and greed there would have been bait banners and such to encourage reckless spending.This is just them not caring to follow tradition.
You say that as if the introduction of FEH Pass is somehow worse than what players are experiencing with Genshin's anniversary. It isn't, not in the slightest.

Hell, nowadays players either don't care about the Pass or eagerly look forward to who'll be the next Resplendent. It also wasn't the only thing introduced during the
FEH Channel announcements. Plus, during FEH anniversaries IntSys is quite generous in rewarding players with orbs and even 5* heroes.
Gacha gaming is like a different dimension from the traditional PC and console gaming. Other gacha games have set the expectation of having a big anniversary
event with a lot of free stuff. And being frustrated when your expectations are not met is just basic human psychology. To make matters worse, the communication
around this has been abysmal: there were many people actually hoping for some kind of surprise up until the very last moment, and MiHoYo did nothing to read the
room and clear the misunderstanding.
This is a game literally based on gambling addiction and waifus. The fanbase is in a very specific rabbit hole and this event is depriving them of both.
Its actually a big deal in gacha gaming sphere

And people took it personally because they invested so much time in this game expecting to get rewarded for sticking around for a year just like any other gacha
games out there
For gacha players, free rolls and/or premium currency are the holy grail (especially if the gacha rates are especially cruel). How is being denied that — along with a
bunch of other resources — silly?
Its more of a "straw that broke the camels back" situation.

Dissatisfaction has been slowly growing for a month or two due to clunky and/or poorly performing new characters, more frequent bugs, sharp decline in QoL fixes,
lack of any community interaction or clarity such as addressing feedback or providing roadmaps, and what feel like a few bait and switch business practices.
Now now, we can get sillier.
But no. This is like saying "it's silly to get mad fifa is selling players".
It is, but at the same time it's a culmination of a bunch of issues that have led to this. Bugs not getting fixed. Character kits being crap. Other characters getting
immediately changed upon release. The latest story content being way below standard of the initial content in the game. Getting no communication from Mihoyo.
Feedback getting ignored. Etc etc etc.

So while it's silly, it makes sense in the context of everything else that is going on in the game. There's no better time to riot than when you have an event line this --
or non event.
it's cute,but it's not really part of anniversary. Just some content they dropped.
They've had other events that feel larger.
I like the event too and I consider it part of the anniversary. Genshin community is just super toxic and delusional right now.
agreed a d also a good weapon reward. but it's not something for the anniversary
Okay I don't understand gacha games, I don't play them, but I have to say something here: I don't get why anyone saying anything negative about something is
suddenly "entitlement".

There are two casinos.

Casino A has large luxurious suites, a walk-in day spa that comes complimentary to guests, they give me free food and drinks while I'm on the floor, AND for their 1-
year opening anniversary they will match my cash-to-chips up to $1000.

Casino B offers standard hotel rooms, a 1-drink ticket on the floor, and did nothing for their anniversary.

None of those amenities are required but I am still within my rights to rank Casino A as 5-stars and Casino B as 2-stars.

Customers are customers, and if your business model is pleasing them while taking their money (as is the case with casinos or gacha) then they are also within
their rights to tell you when they are upset and why.
For the obscene amount of money they've made here, honestly yes, unironically.

In a normal transaction you get what you pay for and that's the end, and your "eNtItAlMenT" argument would hold a lot more water. But in the case where a
company is using the most aggressive monetization model to milk money where folks can pay them for literally nothing, I can't say I care about them having to deal
with these kind of expectations.
[removed]
> it is a guaranteed 4-star from the current banner

Well, it's a guaranteed 4-star. If you're on your 4-star 50/50, it may or may not be one that's featured on the banner, though.
Yes, but they aren't milking as much money and are close to each other in terms of competition. They use rewards to try and get the edge on.

Genshin is quite frankly on a whole different league in terms of presentation and financial gain (and I have little bias since I tried and failed a few times to get into it).
It's not that big an exaggeration to call it the Nintendo of gacha at the moment. So they can make their own rules until (if ever) other companies catch up
[Paging Mr Krabs](https://youtu.be/rasZzenuYxI)
Yeah. On the one hand, these aren't Live2D chibi marionettes.

On the other hand, there's no end of stuff they coulda done to placate everyone without digging deeply into their gacha money pool.

- A free permabanner 5-star character of your choice!
- An extra constellation across all of the 4-star Knights of Favonius!
- Get a free five-pack billet of your choice!
- An extra Paimon to meet all your Paimonial needs!
Here is a crazy thought:

Maybe don't play or otherwise support games that are just slot machines with an anime aesthetic?
This game has much higher production values than the other games that are also designed to milk money out of you. I'm not saying it isn't predatory and shouldn't
be fixed, but you can tell a good portion of it is going back into the development pipeline.
This is a good time to remember that Genshin up until a few months ago was known as one of the “good” gatcha games that was generous and blah blah blah.


They all follow this trajectory, they act generous at first to get you hooked and get people playing so it gets popular, then they pull the rug. It happens every time and
you still see the lemmings fall off the cliff like “how could we have seen this coming?!?!”
I mean this is only news if you haven't been paying attention since week one the game released.

Not that's any excuse tho, I fear what kind of impact (heh) the success of Genshin is going to have on the gaming landscape.
Same friend. That, and freakin gyro support for controllers that have it.
lol, it's been so long that I completely forgot that that was the reason I dropped the game. That's *still* not in yet?
Why do people play gambling games?
I love gacha games but I'm the kind of player that never expends actual money on them. I like them because:

> 1. Gambling is fun if there's no risk of losing anything important (Self-control is important here)


> 2. I like "character/monster collecting" games, like Pokemon, Digimon, Monster Hunter Stories 2, etc.

To me, something like FGO is like Pokemon with gambling+"historical" figures. It's fun to me to gamble away and get a new character, learn its lore and see its
animations.


Althought being honest, I'm not a good example of "Gacha Gamer". Currently I only play FGO and Arknights, and could never really get into Genshin.
It's sort of like collecting card games. People enjoy completing their collection, even if the model is shitty
I've nothing against a gameplay system of random draws of units/characters/gear with which you 'make do' for a while until the you get the result you want. Its cool,
I think it worked well enough for enough players in Xenoblade.

&#x200B;

I've little against the gamblepulls in F2P games if only they put in spending limits or similar systems that would guarantee all you need within a certain low bar
($100s max, not the $10ks+ huge spending addicts might do). I don't want it, but if that's the one price to pay for a frequently updated F2P game, I can tolerate.

&#x200B;

I play gacha games but for sure the \*gacha\* part of it is nonsense I can't support and very rarely, barely do with my dollars.
Speaking as someone who can control their gambling urges and is f2p in *many* gachas other than the occasional monthly card if it's a game I actually want to
support--It still feels good to get a rare pull. Is anyone actually immune to the draw of getting an unexpected prize of some kind?
And I find it weird that western game companies like EA gets blasted for lootbox yet most eastern game companies get a pass.
Yeah, the gacha part is the thing i dislike the most in the game. If it had been a free to play game with 5 star characters released as DLC at 5-10 €... i would have
spent more money on it :p
I have played KHUX and Mobius till shutdown, I am well aware. Couldn't find a more entitled fanbase if you tried... makes you questions if you can even call it "fan"
base since it's non stop whining and complaining.
> ...the player will drop another 100$ or 1000$ as usual

I.. what? $1000? What could they possibly offer that anyone would think is worth a grand..
For what it's worth, they did see [a pretty steep decline in revenue on their most recent banner](https://i.redd.it/pt1qn554t1p71.jpg).

Now whether that's due to the anniversary backlash, the anti-crit-meta stats they put on the character, or just people overspending on the _previous_ banner, your
guess is as good as mine.
I'm not sure if they're loud minorities. Pretty sure a lot of the complainers are still dumping cash into the game no matter if MiHoYo listens.
Obviously it’s not necessary, but it’s an extremely predatory system that ropes people into spending way more money than they can afford to on a game. The fact
that someone can easily have to spend 2k on a character because that really want that C6 constellation is insane.

This game is rolling in money. They do not need to prey on gambling addicts to make crazy profits. I would get it if they were actually a small indie game.
i mean in this case it's spread to genshin players leaving 1 star reviews for the developer's other games because they don't like what's going on in genshin. I think
"review bombing" is pretty apt here.
Nah even honkai and tear of themis are getting 1 star "genshin blablabla" reviews
Not gonna lie, that's a pretty dumb thing to say.

A review bomb is a review bomb whether or not you care about it.
What a shit take.
At the same time of you are still pumping your time and money into the game, is your problem really with the game?
Look man. The point of reviews is to tell other people how fun a game would be to play. An anniversary not giving a lot of rewards does not take a game from a 8 to
a 1 on any planet. Shit's real cringe.
I feel like the distinction here is in the mob mentality tbh. If you want to talk shit about a game for some petty reason that's fair enough. But when a bunch of dudes
decide to shit on a game (and other games by the same dev) all at the same time it kinda gets iffy.
From what I've seen the upset people are mainly those who had expectations of big rewards from other gacha games or heard about those from people who've
talked about those expectations.

...as someone with no previous gacha experience who just picked up the game because it seemed like a fun action adventure game that was free...this all seems
pretty silly and way blown out of proportion. Could they be more generous? Yeah, of course. But the actual game is still good and the current game event is one of
the best ones they've had, so I'm more focused on that than not getting some anniversary goodies I was never promised.
>The problem is that Genshin exploded in popularity and brought in a bunch of people who have never played gachas before, hence the extreme reactions by
people who have no clue how (some) of this stuff is the norm for gachas as a genre

Eh, I have to disagree with that. The majority of the review bombing and negativity is from the Chinese community, and I'd bet that the vast majority of them also
play other gacha games.
Eh, I kind of agree and disagree. Agree that it's brought a bunch of people who are unfamiliar with gachas, but in that same vein, having big events around game
anniversaries is pretty unique to the gacha sphere, so those wouldn't be the people raging unless they just got caught up in the bandwagon. People who don't play
gachas aren't going to have expectations for anniversary events.
This is largely my perspective as well. I've played so many (gacha) games that had rampant power creep, tons of monetization, sleaze all around. I really think the
kind of...intermittent reinforcement of crap treatment most of the time and very big periodic rewards to keep people hooked has made people addicted to exactly
that reward structure. I also think that's happening with the power creep stuff too. Genshin's hero releases are less frequent than average, and that amplifies the
need when people get the new hero to immediately feel like they've gotten stronger and can do more things better.

I think it also takes away from requests and discussions that would actually make the game more fun for real, and not just more addictive. I'd love more people to
have constructive conversation about more fun, permanent co-op features, personally.
Started playing World Flipper, my first gacha (just had kid, needed something one handed and brainless). It's probably on the less exploitative end of the spectrum
and actually has, you know, gameplay.

That said, the intricacy of the manipulation is startling. Like, you can get really deep without spending anything, but you start to hit these choke points that really
can't be circumvented, but in a slow boiling pot kind of way. Then they do these limited time events (like in this article) that are transparently designed to drain your
resources quickly.

Not planning to spend money on the game, but man does it get its hooks into you.
Can't you play 100% of Fifa without paying anything beyond the initial purchase price? Sure, if you want Ronaldo you'll have to sell your car for loot boxes, but isn't
that exactly the same as Albedo from Genshin?


I haven't played either game, but it really sounds like bullshit that the games are opposites of the spectrum when you need loot boxes to get the strongest
characters. Diluc is one of the best characters in the game, and is only available in loot boxes. At least Fifa let's you buy Ronaldo for a flat (exorbitant) fee.
True, and you know their money their choice. But then some poor sap is being exploited into spending thousands just to keep the game alive.

Additionally, the best teams are limited to RNG . Same with weapon pulls. Getting to C6 Venti or C6 Barb requires a lot of right pulls.
Yup. A lot of people say, "You don't have to spend money, it's free."

Yeah. It's free. Because of the people spending money.
And playing it F2P gets you the barest fraction of the content, because your team(s) are so dependent on the RNG giving you some combination of characters.
I remember something about the chests that pissed me off, I think I heard when you level up new chests spawn in new areas or something, which I didn't know, I just
figured they respawned and didn't want to deal with that since I don't like that about most open world games.

And I'm certain they were marked in some fashion because otherwise I wouldn't have spent so much time running around town to pick all the useless buggers up.
level up new chests spawn or something is what I was told after, I dunno, I only played 8 hours.

I found the chests somehow, otherwise I wouldn't have wasted time on them.
Yeah it's just kinda vague, no actual info of what the rewards were to have an opinion on it. imo at least
> It just makes no sense to a console gamer because the concept of annivery rewards isn't a thing.

To be fair, for a console gamer, most games are like a film or a book: typically one and done.

These games are more like serialized novels from back in the day (literally published a chapter at a time) or a TV show. So slow and steady content releases are a
normal expectation.
I play on PC and I don't really have any experience with other gacha games. I still don't understand why some of the people who play on mobile are so upset.
These people have even resorted to review bombing another mihoyo game in the hope of better genshin anniversary rewards. How does anyone get that worked
up over not getting a few extra free lootboxes?
>it just makes no sense to a console gamer

What does console have to do with this? I'm a PC gamer and the article still made no sense without the context provided by the top comment.
Ya on launch day this would be accurate. But still a re roll account would have more than 0 kills pretty much guaranteed. So still doesn't make sense why the 0 kill
account is listed as top 10%. And the other account i mentioned is AR10, which happens to be where the reroll accounts would have ended since there was loot at
AR7 and AR10
Are people still passing around the 100 primos thing, that's another event. The fanart event has 1-10k primos and physical goods like iPads for prizes.
Seems they now just want to milk the cow as long as possible and let it die.
> The solution for literally all of this? Communication. Mihoyo has done a god awful job of communicating.

Well, what do you expect from a Chinese software company? They are notorious for not communicating with their customers about anything.
Honkai's first anniversary was just as bad, you're comparing 5th anniversary to first.
Yeah man I play gachas too

It's really only been the Japanese ones that have the overkill of rewards and events surrounding them, not that global ones don't care about anniversaries.
...which are Japanese games. What are you even trying to say?
Yes

Genshin Impact is not Japanese is what I'm saying.

??? Do you play GFL. A freebie 5* is nothing.
Getting a 5* in FEH means a lot less than getting one in Genshin though
Sounds like a good time to quit and put your money into something else!
That's gambling for you.
> there were many people actually hoping for some kind of surprise up until the very last moment

We've got to a place where the community doesn't support being upset at its own misplaced expectations on surprises.
No matter how you say it, it's still hilarious that people are upset over *fake virtual prizes* for a fucking Gacha game.

We shouted so much about voting with our wallets practically a decade ago. Now look at y'all
> And being frustrated when your expectations are not met is just basic human psychology.


I mean, being "very upset" when some virtual party doesn't live up to your expectations is basic child psychology. I get that Gacha games are different, this is still a
hilarious tantrum to watch play out.


> there were many people actually hoping for some kind of surprise up until the very last moment, and MiHoYo did nothing to read the room and clear the
misunderstanding.


Lol "people invented expectations based on nothing, time to hold devs accountable for that!"
Yea no.. there are plenty of gacha games without huge anniversaries. Big anniversaries are usually only a thing to entice people back into a game that's dying. That
doesn't mean there aren't games out there that are both very alive and very generous, but those are few and far between. You are far more likely to find the bigger
games to have mediocre anniversary events. We're also talking about the first year anniversary, that I usually find big games even make a big deal about it.
Because again, usually it's the later anniversaries that have better stuff because the game is older.

I get Genshin fans aren't happy, but it's hilarious how over the top peoples' reactions become. Acting like it's the end of the world because they don't get more free
stuff. Then again, gacha games are like drugs, and can be super addictive, which leads to rabid fanbases.
This doesn't sound healthy
It is probably the creepiest online fanbase I ever come across
Socrates died for this shit
>waifus

They have more than waifu's.
But those rewards weren't for sticking around for a year, if I understand right. It's the games anniversary, not the players. Aren't these events suppose to
reinvigorate old players and entice new ones? After 1 year and the continued growth, it seems like not a good time for freebies for GI. Wait until numbers drop it
engagement starts falling behind before giving freebies.

Sounds like a lot of people in other games took a marketing event to be a player appreciation event.
....I don't know man. The more I read about this, the weirder it feels.
Did they promise free stuff and then not deliver, or is everyone just feeling especially entitled to free stuff for no reason and being extremely silly? Because it sounds
an awful lot like the 2nd thing
Because it's a different Dev? If xbox gives away a bunch of free things should I get angry at Nintendo when they don't?

Why don't people just play other gacha games if Genshin is apparently screwing up so much.
But they weren't denied it? They just expected it and didn't get it and are now lashing out, if its how the top comment described it.

But in my opinion its a silly thing to get upset about a genre literally designed to nickle and dime its players having developers/publishers that are unapologetically
stingy.
>How is being denied that — along with a bunch of other resources — silly?

You aren't denied anything when you're not entitled to those things in the first place. You can be disappointed it didn't happened, but the act of acting like you're
being *denied* something is what's silly.

Fuck off with that entitled bullshit, this would be like mihoyi whining about being denied your paycheck of you don't spend $x every month on their game.
> How is being denied that — along with a bunch of other resources — silly?

As someone who plays quite a few gacha: because I don't play for pulls, I play for the game. If I just wanted a gambling simulator, I can restart the game again and
again (known as rerolling) and eat my heart out with "infinite" rolls.
It dropped *on* the Anniversary (subject to in some timezones), how is that not a part of it?
It's a free to play game. They aren't customers paying for a product.

If I buy groceries at the supermarket every week, I don't expect to get a free meal for my 1 year anniversary. And I definitely don't review bomb the supermarket
when they don't give me free meals for being a frequent shopper.

I paid for something and I received something in return. It's a one-off transaction. There was no expectation of anything more.
Your comparison doesn't really match what Genshin is in terms of how it has affected the mind share of the mobile gaming market.

**Genshin is example Casino A** in your comparison, they're big, very high quality, do new things that haven't been done in the Casino market before and service
is exceptional. **But** they're basically the new kids on the block that has risen above the other competitors, but they suck with their loyalty rewards.

**Other gacha games fit your example Casino Bs and Casino Cs** . They're fairly established in the realm of Casinos, been in the market for several years now, but
they're very standard fare, quality is a notch down to what Casino A offers but still very good in terms to other Casinos that aren't Casino A. But in order to retain
their customers and attract new users, they provide great loyalty rewards and give out a lot of freebies and promotions.

This is what Genshin is compared to the other games in the mobile market. They're what I would say the first AAA gacha title in the mobile market. Everyone else is
is seemingly stuck below that tier and the only way to compete to throw out freebies.

I expect that as the game grows older and hopefully a competitor shows up, Genshin will start to become generous with their rewards to compete in the mobile
market.

Nobody makes anyone pay for shit. If you spend your money on X, you aren’t buying a pile of free shit down the line. You’re buying X. The end.
What does it how much money they've made? what does that have to do with whether they should give away free stuff? I'm missing the logic jump between
"they're aggressively asking me for money" to "they should give me free things".

Is there maybe a label on stuff where it's like "For 5.99, you'll get this character _and_ you'll get a nice gift on the anniversary"? I feel like I'm missing something.
Except it's a free game.

You don't have to pay them anything. They also don't have to give you things. It goes both ways.
[removed]
The Nintendo of gachas is still Cygames I would say.
how does he play violin without a chin
Skins would be a neat one. A skin for Aether/Lumine or a choice of an Amber/Lisa/Kaeya skin. A glider too for a nice bonus. There is plenty of good rewards they
could give even if they want to be stingy on pulls but they'd rather just be stingy on everything.
Please, can I get one fewer Paimons instead
If you ignore the gacha Genshin is just a damn good game. Great open world, very fun gameplay with a low skill floor but high skill ceiling and a decent story that
builds off very interesting lore.

I wish it wasn't gacha. I'd happily pay full price for this game and pay for each expansion too if we could unlock all characters in-game. But I guess that wouldn't be
as profitable when there are people that are willing to spend thousands on each character.
Easiest way to tell you have never tried to play Genshin lmao. Show me a non gacha with near the amount of content and same type of game and I'll gladly play jt
Here's a crazy thought:

Don't tell people what to do with their own money.
This is true. In fact, Genshin has a semi-monopolistic position as the only AAA gacha. My guess is that MiHoYo were hoping to abuse that position to maximize
their revenue, and it ended up backfiring hard.
Anyone with half a brain could tell you it was bad from day 1. Genshin is carried by it's aesthetic and by virtue of being a good game at it's core. A game just *good*
enough to syphon money from addicts and non-addicts alike.

The key difference, of course, being that if this was a standalone $60 product it'd have long been forgotten by now whereas locking characters behind a slot
machine for some reason turns it into this super popular money printing machine. People are weird.
Anyone who has experience with gacha games knew Genshin wasn't generous from the start.
I don't recall Genshin EVER having that reputation. Good in terms of gameplay, yes, but it's been known to be horrendously stingy in drop rates and stamina since
its inception.
> Genshin up until a few months ago was known as one of the “good” gatcha games that was generous

Literally no one has ever called Genshin generous lol.
Has Genshin Impact ever been known as generous? From what I have seen it has been one of the most f2p unfriendly games in a real long while. The whole
constellation mechanic is pure BS.
Exact same reason and last I checked no. IOS has it so it's not like they are opposed to the idea.

I legitimately have no idea why they haven't...
I don't know about others but for me it's related to why I like roguelikes. You're given a random/semi random allotment of characters/equipment and have to utilize
them, possibly in creative ways, to beat the game.
The short answer is that gacha games don't pull people in from their gambling aspect alone (the setting, artstyle, gameplay can all reel them in as well), and that
different people have different preferences for how they spend their money. What you see as a guilty pleasure is how (some) gacha players view gambling.
They don't want to play gambling games. They want to play a free BOTW clone with hot sexy cute waifus. The gambling is just a side effect.
People like gambling.
It's not gambling. When you're gambling, you have the opportunity to leave with more money than you entered with.

Gacha is a one-sided exchange. Not only does the house never lose, *you can never win.* The games industry getting ahead of regulation and getting this shit
normalized as "gambling" was a stroke of PR genius.
I'm with you and I've pretty much exclusively played gachas for like the past ~5 years (can't afford to play on consoles because I live in a shithole third world country
hahah). Only one I've ever spent money on is FGO, and that's been $30 across two GSSR banners which i feel is a pretty reasonable amount of spending for a
game I've been playing for 4 years.
>within a certain low bar ($100s max, not the $10ks+ huge spending addicts might do)

Interestingly there are terms for this in Live Ops.

Bounded MTX refers to games where there are limits on what's even possible to spend. Think BioWare's Anthem, where a rotating shop has X number of new
skins that pop up or dies, etc. These are generally harmful to game design, but not too predatory aside from that.

Unbounded MTX refers to games where there are not limits on whats possible to spend, and the design of these shops has at least some sort of system that people
can pay for more endlessly. Think Clash of Clans consumeables, or hell, think Gachas like Genshin Impact. These are the incredibly predatory models, as they
hook gambling addicts with no end in sight since there isn't a cap, and it HEAVILY damages game design to the point where the entire game is designed around
these systems.

That's not to say Unbounded can't work in consumer favor, though. Take Genshin's insane amount of "Free" content. You can't justify that in a Bounded MTX game.
Hell, newer models for Unbounded F2P from the GDC aren't THAT predatory. Basically newer standards are about selling Whales X, giving free players Y, then
over time allowing free players to work for X, and then create and sell Z to whales. This method allows whales to always spend stupid amounts for advantages, also
kind of force them to keep spending to retain the advantage, and gives F2P players endless free content to work (As long as they don't mind being whaled over).
It's pretty F2P consumer friendly.
Gacha was the worst thing about Xenoblade and the thing that kept it from being a 5star game to me. I wouldn’t have minded it nearly as much if there were
alternate guaranteed ways to get the rare blades in that game, but locking actual content behind a gacha system, even if it didn’t cost anything but time, was
frustrating at best.
So are you fine with imposed limits on playtime?

I don't see the difference between spending 1k on a game vs spending 40hr a week on a game. Both are signs of addiction. The latter is probably less healthy to a
person with a half decent job.

If the argument is that a limit should be imposed on how much people spend on gacha as a measure to curb addiction, then why not advocate for a 10-20 hour limit
per week on games?
correct me if i'm wrong, but EA was doing lootbox stuff in games people are pay money for, while most gachas are free to play from the beginning.
I would have gone either way. Character DLC? I'd dip in once in a while. B2P with Gacha elements? I'd accept it, but want a more immersive story excuse for it
existing (what do 'Wishes' represent? make up something better). But neither way gets the whales and the megaprofits. So they do this.
\> i have played KHUX

Im sorry

Still though i heard a lot great thing from FF Mobius i wonder if they going to bring it back i want to play it
These whales spend hundreds on the game. There’s a reason they feel “entitled”
That’s a conservative estimate, actually. A fully maxed character (7 copies) typically costs $1500-$2000 depending on your luck. And then there’s also the weapon,
which could cost just as much or more to fully upgrade.

A certain subset of players spend this regularly.
Gambling and the fear of missing out are enough. The game industry has long since figured this out. Tell people they have a random chance of getting something,
but only for a limited time, and their wallets hemorrhage completely. It's the whole basis of the mobile game market.
Why are you thinking its an predatory system? You agree whats its not necessary in the first place having 5 star with c6 and c5 weapon.

How are they roping people into spending thousands of dollar if the only thing they get is that they can clear the same content as a F2P.
Then Honkai and Tear of Themis are getting review bombed, not Genshin.
Yeah I don't know what else you call getting 1 million 1 star reviews in a few days. Actually way more than 1 million if you include all platforms.
This is a live service game. Literally anything can change in a single update. And even if it wasn't. Your perception of the game might change with time. Just like it
happened to many with this anniversary.
If people are not happy with the game and the anniversary update. They are free to express that into a bad review. If you don't think that is valid for a reason or
another. You are also free to ignore the review.
I don't think that is a issue either. The current situation with the anniversary update pissed a lot of people off. So it was obvious that I would end up with a bunch of
guys shitting on the game at the same time.



That said. I agree that doing this in another game is not something that should be done. Same thing with the racial slurs that have been thrown around the
developers. Those doesn't really help anyone.
I think the chinese online gaming community is always kind of like this, but there are two big things here: this is a chinese-developed game, so they're louder about
it and feel more entitled to preferential treatment, and the non-gacha people brought into this just kinda bandwagon onto the loud extremism because it sounds right.
This is also partly intentional too, I've seen more arguments from the chinese side that seem tuned to get western outrage. Like, industry standard gacha stuff (or
fantasy trope stuff) that, sure, is problematic, but it's clearly being said by communities that don't care and are just using it to generate additional agitation.
Compared to other games that nickel and dime you, Genshin is a lighter shade of that.

You can freely explore and complete 95% of the game's content with just using your starter units, and the lower rarity units are in some cases stronger than the
higher rarity ones. You get around 40-60 hours worth of main story content before you start seeing the mindless grind to min-max your units. Also none of the new
quest areas are behind a paywall or DLC.

The only thing you'll be missing out on is either different character's playstyles and some optional end game content or harder challenges where the rewards are
basic currency, since they front-load the premium currency rewards on the easiest difficulty.
Yeah, sorry not sure what you're talking about. The game doesn't have level up new chest spawn or anything like that. You might've played the game but
completely misunderstood what you're supposed to do.
Yeah, that's a long story and varies from game to game. It's kind of a mess to elaborate on. In a slightly unsatisfying summary:

 Genshin takes on average 142 pulls to get a highest rarity character (with a guaranteed pull after 180 pulls, called pity. Which resets when you pull a highest rarity
character), and you get maybe 30 pulls a month (in comparison to this: current industry standard is about 33 pulls with 200-300 pity, and maybe 50-80 pulls a
month). So if you aren't paying you have to save up a lotta pulls over months to get a desired character, over twice as much as other gacha (and most other gacha
will get you want you want way before you hit pity. Or at least, some high rarity character).

Other annivseries can go so far as to give you a free selector of any character or 100+ pulls. Genshin gives 10 (which is scaled down to like, 3-5 summons
compared to other games). Players are mad over this and Mihoyo says nothing.
Traditionally in other gacha games, full year and half year anniversaries are typically when a bunch of freebies are given out in celebration for it.

Basically, they’re used for player retention, marketing, and to get new people in.

From what I’ve heard though, genshin’s playerbase retention has only risen though which means they don’t need to do much vs the typical scenario of slowly
bleeding the player base over time, which happens in other games due to several reasons, but most typically burnout.

But really, it’s just the entire playerbase being whiny and entitled because of how other gachas have trained them, just like how you’d train a dog. And for people
new to gachas, they tend to be more critical of it from the get-go vs someone who’s used to the abuse.

At least imo.
I meant more in the realm of "non-mobile gamers" than specifically PS4/Switch players. *Maybe* PC players have more hands on experience with anniverseries
from MMO's, but I wasn't assuming that
It was actually 10% chance of Welkin Moon; 90% chance of 100K Mora. That was the one getting memed on.

My bad.
Well Genshin Impact has the highest first year revenue of any game ever released in history and the revenue has barely dipped since release. So from their own
business perspective there's no need to change anything at the moment.
Well, they're actually working on a new game to replace Genshin called "Honkai: Star Rail", which is supposedly a sequel to Honkai Impact 3rd Edition. Their
current behavior makes no sense because Genshin's made WAY more money that their other games combined.
It's a gacha game, what in the fuck else would anybody expect?
So you're saying they have some experience?
You comparing a game that barely sustainable at release that barely anyone knows to a biggest most succesfull gacha of all time

Such a poor excuse
No it's not, like the dude said Arknights had a great anniversary, and Azur Lane had a fairly decent one also. Epic Seven had a fantastic one as well recently. It has
absolutely nothing to do with being a Japanese gacha or not, you're just thinking of Cygames titles which all have a reputation for going all out. Granted, there's War
of the Visions too which is generous as all hell.

Either way, it's not remotely a country of origin thing and very much a "Mihoyo fucked up" thing.
wasn't the Azur Lane anniversaries pretty good as well as mihoyo's other game?
I mean, I feel like compared to 10 wishes a freebie 5* is probably a lot.

Somewhere out there is some poor chap who came in too late for the Klee re-run, missed pity on Yoimiya and isn't likely to see Yanfei for a while who could use a
Diluc.

Or heck, someone who didn't get themselves a Baal who could really benefit from a Keqing.

I don't really care for an anniversary reward; my team's fine, I don't think I've missed gold-starring a combat event in months, and my lack of SA-12 completion is
due to being too lazy to strategize for it. But I've got friends playing who could definitely use either a free 5* or a free R5's worth of billets.

**edit: Actually screw all that for anniversary I want another Paimon. My Paimonial needs are currently unmet.**
Bro, do you? A freebie 5* can be huge if you haven't been playing forever. It's let me fill out a ton of meta guns I'm lacking, like Grape and S.A.T.8, among others.
Sure you still have to afford dummy linking them, but that's nothing so long as you keep your expeditions running and buy out the black market.

The more you post the more I doubt you actually play gachas at all...

Even then it's not like GFL is the only game giving out 5-stars. Again, Epic Seven gave away several (and boatloads of pulls), Azur Lane gives away 5-stars. Even
the monster that is FGO gives a cheap GSSR, which given what a nightmare that pulling anything in that game is, is still a bargain. Mihoyo couldn't even do that
much.
Yeah, this is the part where the main cash cow (either CN or JP by a wide margin) determines whether the company being called out actually makes a move to
address concerns or not by voting with their engagement and wallet. What happens next is up to the Eastern playerbase.
But they won't. And the cycle goes on.
Yeah anyone spending money on gacha games really has little to complain about. The value you’re getting for what you spend is entirely up to the company to
decide and it’s never even remotely worth it since they want you to buy more and more and more. No self-respecting game should have $100 premium currency
packs or charge $15 for a character or costume or have .02% drop rates in their shitty pulls.

Why people support this garbage with money will never make sense to me. At least battle passes in some games try to make the value equivalent, gacha games
never, ever do anything but appeal to whales
Except it's not based on nothing. There is another gacha game by the same developer called Honkai Impact, and it has had generous anniversary events for years.
Not to mention all the other gachas people are comparing Genshin to.
>Lol "people invented expectations based on nothing, time to hold devs accountable for that!"

To echo /u/VegitoYoshaaa since you clearly didn't listen to them the first time around:

>The anniversaries are basically THE best time to play gacha games. There's usually tons of rewards, content, special banners, bonuses and all sorts of other
stuff. Basically just a big celebration.



**It's been a standard for years that during this time all the stops get pulled and everyone has a great time.**

Genshin is arguably the biggest gacha game in the world right now, so for it to have this abysmal an anniversary when far smaller gachas can put out better is an
utter bitch slap to the community. The expectations were warranted.

>being "very upset" when some virtual party doesn't live up to your expectations is basic child psychology

By this logic, someone being upset about anything they're being passionate about is childish.
> Lol "people invented expectations based on nothing

Other than, you know, the genre standard for years. And Mihoyo running another game of their own, but sure. Keep trying to act like you have any idea what you're
talking about.
You haven't been online very much then.
Consider yourself lucky if that's really the worst you've ever seen.
Oh lucky you.
Someone posted the "pineapple pen" meme on twitter once where the guy combined K-Pop Stans with a crippling gambling addiction and the result of the fusion
was the Genshin Impact fanbase. It's still alarmingly accurate to this day.
Ehh, I've been a part of Sonic, Undertale, Steven Universe, etc. This isn't in that tier yet. It has potential, but not at the moment.

This is more Final Fantasy Tier fanbase. Top of the line presentation but people still want more stuff faster and better looking.
The backlash is basically that people don't want to accept everything you're saying lol

You're completely right and that's why people are upset
> Aren't these events suppose to reinvigorate old players and entice new ones?

And doing nothing reinvigorates old/new players... how?

Freebies during an anniversary is absolutely the best time as it gives long-time players a reason to remain invested in the game and provides new players with an
incentive to start.

>a player appreciation event

Which is what an anniversary event *should* be: celebrate the game and those who made it the powerhouse that it is.
The expectation is more or less grounded in gacha culture since even far less successful gachas will offer free pulls as a token of respect for the support the
community has given. Given Mihoyo's revenue compared to their less successful competitors, greed in this case is viewed as unacceptable.
It is just people feeling entitled, but that's because anniversary celebrations are standard practice in the gacha genre. Even Mihoyo's other game, Honkai Impact
3rd, has proper anniversary rewards.

They're diverting from the expectation that they helped propagate, so I wouldn't say people are being "extremely silly" for being a little peeved, especially
considering the fact that Genshin has made them a metric fuck ton of money
No, that's just how gacha games work in general, it has been for years and it's the norm in the community. Basically, it's industry standard for this genre and Mihoyo
is basically saying "haha nah screw that"
Of course is 2nd thing what do you expect from gacha players

Mihoyo want this audience and they got it, and they also must face the gacha community along with it

You must treat gacha player like a kid
Do you feel this way when it comes to other mass community criticism like with Battlefront 2's monetization and progression systems?
I mean yes, people complain about Nintendo having shit sales and terrible hardware compared to their competitors.
TBF, people do exactly that. Maybe not to the point of review bombing their games, but they do make these apples to oranges comparisons.
But people do get angry that nintendo doesn't lower their prices and discount heavily. Maybe not in a burst like this but they are consistently pointing it out
I guess one way to put it is that it feels like players are being scammed / denied these resources when Mihoyo is in a **much** better position to offer these rewards
than less profitable competitors who are also providing these resources. They have no excuse *not* to do this given their position, so it's seen as corporate greed
on their part.
gacha players are just wired differently lol

I play a couple of gacha game myself and participate in the community and yeah honestly they are just wired different.
it dropped a day before anniversary actually and it's literally a separate thing. They had some anniversary announcements and this was not mentioned as part of it,
it would have happened even if it wasn't anniversary. It just happened to land a day before
Because it isn't a part of the anniversary. Might they have just said so, otherwise? If it is anything explicit, its an autumn event. Certainly its rewards are also not the
better typical gacha anniversary sort, even if dinky 2primos per mapchest, etc, isn't nothing.

&#x200B;

It is alongside it, and it should be said, and defended, that it makes it so the anniversary period isn't only some login bonus, but it is not the anniversary event not
more than a return of treasure seeles would be an anniversary event. Its an event happening around the time of the anniversary. Perhaps if Moonchase was a
retrospective of the game so far, and had rewards and activities that reflected that somehow, you might have a better point.
> It dropped on the Anniversary (subject to in some timezones), how is that not a part of it?

Because the rewards are standard event level rewards that you get in any major update for the game. It has nothing to do with anniversary at all. The only rewards
that are directly above and beyond the usual is the login even that will give you 10x wishes for the featured banner and some few additional but entirely not
noteworthy resources that might save you all of a day's worth of playing the game (that meaning maybe 160 resin worth of gold, some crystals for weapons, etc.)
and that's probably being overly generous.
I feel like we should be agreeing a lot more here based on your answer. You're right, a supermarket is not likely to get bad reviews in that case, just like a hardware
store or any other retailer. They exist to give you a physical product for money. Ignoring the psychology of memberships and loyalty programs,, when the
transaction is done its done and I care more about the quality of the wood or fruit more than I do the amenities provided by the seller.

But in the case of casinos or games, particularly FTP games, the product is entertainment. I have no obligation to spend money on a game or card table, the onus
is on the seller to convince me to stay, to sit down, to ask myself "what's the harm in one hand, one loot box? I'm already enjoying myself here after all". They have
to stand out from the competition. This is especially the case nowadays with FTP crap being a dime a dozen to churn out. They don't HAVE to do anything, but not
doing something that, from the other comments here, sounds like a business standard ultimately is a business decision and they can be criticized for it.

Heck, ill even walk back a little of what I said about supermarkets: after all, they have no actual requirement to provide restrooms for their customers. But I am
much less likely to go to one that doesn't on the off-chance I'm stuck there for a few hours.
There are 3 different chain supermarkets in my walking distance radius, each with their own point cards.

So I do expect to get some quasi-free groceries with those points every once in a while and favour the one that seems better about it.
[removed]
The problem is that every aspect of the game feeds back into the gacha because that’s the central mechanic. I played for a decent bit at launch and had very few
characters, and most of those were boring or bad because they were the f2p ones. It was miserable. You can’t just ignore the central mechanic of a game and say
its good even though that mechanic is game ruining.
'Content' is so subject here. I have played Genshin and while there is a lot of 'content' as it were, the way the content manifests is shallow.

More specifically, the systems do not provide a platform for there to be a lot of interesting and unique content to begin with, and the actual content of the game is
designed not so much as an challenge with intentionality behind it, but as another thing for the player base to do. Combat is just not that complex, and mastery of
the systems is relatively simple.

For systems, I draw a contrast to a game like DMC4, which uses similar camera, movement, and core combat systems. DMC4 as a platform of systems is actually
what depth looks like in this variety of a game, where being 'good enough' is just scratching the surface of the options available, and mastery requires substantial
effort. Compared to DMC4, Genshin's systems are remarkably shallow and the path to mastery is short. The gacha part of this also opens the door to a Dragon's
Dogma-type situation, where numbers end up mattering more than player ability in some spaces. Because there is such a shallow curve to mastery, there is only so
much a player can do to overcome a challenge before numbers start to matter more.

For structured content, I think the parallels are less obvious. Monster Hunter might be close-ish relative, but I think structured content a'la WoW or FFXIV raids are
the ideal here. That kind of very designed content with a lot of intentionality is where the real meat of the game is, and it's something Genshin just doesn't have. It's
content isn't that tightly designed, and it ends up a variation on the same kind of stuff we've seen before.

So, to unpack all that - does Genshin impact have a lot of content? If by 'content' you mean, 'things to do', I guess that tracks, but I think the real question is, 'does
Genshin Impact have a lot of content worth engaging with?', to which I think the answer is unfortunately, 'no'.
Spend your money how you want my dude, but don't complain when the casino isn't paying you out.
> MiHoYo were hoping to abuse that position to maximize their revenue, and it ended up backfiring hard.

Somehow, I think next months financials will disagree with that statement.
Lol backfiring hard, you guys will keep dumping money into your pulls until the end of time this doesn't change anything and you are too invested in your characters
to stop now.
> it ended up backfiring hard.

i think it's entirely way too early to say this with any certainty. at least in the gacha sphere, angry nerd tantrums aren't exactly famed for their staying power. my
guess is within a month or two MHY reruns one of the popular meta character banners and releases another well-liked character and they're right back to making
money hand over fist.
September will end up being the game's most successful month ever.

Once they come out with another meta waifu it'll be business as usual
Unfortunately they’re either so addicted to that dopamine rush from pulls that they didn’t say anything or they got drowned out by the new set of rubes Mihoyo found
because that was the reason I gave it a shot. Played it for 20 hours found out it wasn’t what people were saying and bounced.
so much this. Genshin impact is a lot of things but generous has never been one of them
So do you want me to pull over every person that claimed it was generous before we admit it? In a 10 second Reddit search I found [this from a little over a week
ago](https://www.reddit.com/r/Genshin_Impact/comments/pryuap/remember_back_in_the_day_when_mihoyo_was_generous/) in the middle of this anniversary
debacle


[And This highly rated discussion post talking about gore’s generousgore’s generous they are]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/Genshin_Impact/comments/j799kw/i_will_say_my_biggest_tip_to_enjoy_the_game_and/)


Along with most YouTubers and podcasters that I listened to talk about it when it came out. What evidence would suffice for people to admit that we’re rewriting
history here?
Probably some gripe wity Bluestacks.
I understand that, but if people can enjoy gambling games then can't they specifically enjoy the gacha components of gacha games as well?
I'm not talking about Genshin players, I'm talking about people who play literal gambling games like Blackjack.
Indeed. Yes I was referencing this, but only had a cursory knowledge.

&#x200B;

And it should be noted, whether opponents to gacha like it or not - most gacha games, of their varying quality, allow full F2P experience for at least almost all of
their storyline gameplay content. That's how the casual players get it, have a bit of phone fun, and otherwise do their eat/sleep/work/parent/study/etc things in their
day, at one of the least expensive hobby costs. And many of these games just keep updating and updating for, now, up to several years and onward (the other side
is them shutting down within months and without care for any players).

&#x200B;

You can play 90%+ of Genshin's story and gameplay F2P just fine, as long as you accept a few big things: you will not get all characters and advancement you
want, you will not be a highest performer (with exception for long-time regular, maybe hardcore players), you will have not just days to weeks, but weeks to months
to potentially years of a regular grind if you let yourself do it, and you'll have a shop advert hovering somewhere in the experience, always watching, always
beaconing. But you can do the content.
That's fair!
What does playtime have to do with this? I said nothing about it. That came out of nowhere.

&#x200B;

Spending has immediate effect on wallets and a more direct impact on the economy and people's safety. We limit various purchases for this reason already.
While you're right, I never understood this mindset. Why does the extra entry fee (price of buying the game) matter if you're pissing 100s of dollars/euros away at
lootboxes/gacha anyway?

It being F2P doesn't matter imo since we've already seen there are better ways to monotize F2P games. But maybe I'm just getting old...
I had a great time with khux, nothing to feel sorry for.
It preys on people with gambling addiction and gets them to spend thousands of dollars. I can’t believe people are defending this shit.
how is it not? You're paying money for a chance of getting a character you want. It's gambling. It's very predatory
"I've played this game for some time, and the game itself is alright, but the monetization practices are awful and the company isn't generous enough with rewards to
offset that (with this last event being the final straw that broke the camel's back). As such, I wouldn't recommend this game to others until or unless things improve. I
should post a review indicating this opinion, both to warn others, and to send a message to the company that I'm not happy with their product."

"... oh, wait, actually, there's a lot of other people who think the same thing, so if I post that review that would be review bombing. Better not post it then. :)"
Sure, but that's a stupid way to use the review system and makes it useless for its intended purpose. They might as well only have critic reviews if the public literally
wants to give up on their actual purpose to lash out at companies. I'd much rather people use them properly than that.
Yeah actually now that im thinking about it a bit more. You're probably right. People getting mad at the same time is just kinda what happens when unpopular
decisions are made.
What the fucking shit was it then, I just know I got really irritated with all the chests and korok seed like challenges being every 20 feet and I swear to god after I
finished them and completely cleared an area some new ones popped up later.

I absolutely remember clearing the first town of those worthless chests and some new ones popped up.

That said the only real highlight I had was doing some daily quest, which pissed me off cause I hate that, and I at least found some design love killing the ducks of
that kid and noticing at least some love actually was put into the game.
> Genshin takes on average 142 pulls to get a highest rarity character (with a guaranteed pull after 180 pulls, called pity. Which resets when you pull a highest rarity
character), and you get maybe 30 pulls a month (in comparison to this: current industry standard is about 33 pulls with 200-300 pity, and maybe 50-80 pulls a
month). So if you aren't paying you have to save up a lotta pulls over months to get a desired character, over twice as much as other gacha (and most other gacha
will get you want you want way before you hit pity. Or at least, some high rarity character).

It's stupid bullshit like this that makes me avoid these fucking games like a plague.

What even the fuck is all this dumb shit?
33 pulls a month is not standard. It's usually double that. Arknights gets called stingy but still has more draws a month than that
An important missed detail is how much a pull costs. $100 gets you about 40 pulls so to guarantee a character you’re looking at ~$400. Now take into account that
to reach full power on a character you need 8-10 copies of that character…
You get a guaranteed 5* after max 89 pulls. If you mean the highest rarity character, the one of the banner, than how did you get at 142 pulls average?
> Genshin takes on average 142 pulls to get a highest rarity character (with a guaranteed pull after 180 pulls, called pity. Which resets when you pull a highest rarity
character), and you get maybe 30 pulls a month (in comparison to this: current industry standard is about 33 pulls with 200-300 pity, and maybe 50-80 pulls a
month)

I agree with the point you're trying to make, but unfortunately this number is incorrect. Genshin's F2P number is closer to roughly 90 pulls (enough for a 5-star pity)
within 2 months time. So that puts them well above your industry standard of 33 pulls a month. You can find the data here:
https://www.reddit.com/user/dualie_ink/submitted/

> Other annivseries can go so far as to give you a free selector of any character or 100+ pulls. Genshin gives 10 (which is scaled down to like, 3-5 summons
compared to other games). Players are mad over this and Mihoyo says nothing.

I agree the anniversary reward is crap. But the reason why most other games could offer 100+ pulls is because they might have 200+ characters filled with plenty of
awful fodders where you are still very likely to get nothing meaningful out of those 100+ pulls you get for free. On the other hand, Genshin probably only have
around 30 characters where pretty much everyone is usable. So we can't really expect 100+ pulls, especially when the pity is at 90 and carry over between
banners.


You're absolutely right that 10 pulls is awful though. I just don't think we can use the same standard as other gacha games (which are often more predatory than
Genshin in general).
> Genshin takes on average 142 pulls to get a highest rarity character (with a guaranteed pull after 180 pulls, called pity. Which resets when you pull a highest rarity
character),

Soft pity starts at 74 and hard pity at 90. Once you get highest ranked character you have 50/50 chance to either obtain it from from standard banner or from limited
banner. If you get from standard character then the next time you pull, you will have guarantee that next highest ranked character will be from limited banner.

From the way you wrote, it sounds like you need 142-180 pulls to get highest rarity character which is not true. I am not sure why you wrote it this way.
I thought Genshin Impact was on PS4 and PS5.

Idk I'm probably being obtuse and missing the point so never mind me lol
Replace? Lmao no. No way they make any effort to replace the not successful game in history. Do you think Valorant is trying to replace LoL?
That behavior sounds like to me a game dev who wants to make new projects rather than maintain an old one. Probably should hire a team to keep Genshin rolling,
unless they have other reasons to not commit to it.

China recently wanted studios to move away from addictive money sinks, which might be one of the concerns.
It's like blizzard fans thinking the company is going to suddenly wake up one day and give a shit. Lol people still think of companies as human beings when the
reality is its $$ and nothing else
Yeah, they could probably give better rewards but they probably don't want to have to give a free 5 star or something on their second anniversary.
Genshin is not the biggest gacha of all time.

For example it is only 1 place ahead of Fate/Grand Order for mobile revenue last month despite the fact that FGO released years ago. FGO has proven to have the
staying power to last years without losing steam. Genshin has a long way to go to prove the same.

Also in terms of total revenue it's still billions behind the top dogs.
Arknights had a way better 1.5 year "Anniversary" than Genshin's actual anniversary lmao
It definitely is a “country of origin thing”.

You and that other guy, probably your alt, are cherry picking a handful of games to make your point. Across all modern gachas, Japanese ones have the best rates,
best rewards, and best pity system. Chinese gachas come second. Korean gachas are last.

Source: Me and r/gachagaming
Also Arknight a chinese game have good anniversary as well
Azur Lane is not a traditional gacha, they monetize essentially purely on cosmetics with an overly generous character system.

And I don't know what Honkai Impact is up to.
Hi, it me. Playing since launch and still desperately waiting to see Keqing and Mona...
Dont you think theres a difference between those Live2D gachas and AAA game like genshin though? Mihoyo has like a yearly budget of 200 mil for development
the last i heard while these other gachas can churn out low budget stuff easily.

To be fair, GFL is way more generous with its 5*s, unless you want a shotgun. The shotgun RNG borders on being a war crime of some sort.

Comically enough my favorite character, first 5x, and first MOD3 was IDW.

edit: da nyaa.
Must be a bit salty if you're narrowing it down to that I don't play gachas at all

5* characters are not created equal in strength or difficulty to obtain among all the gachas, and GFL's 5* leans on the easy to obtain, because like Azur Lane,
obtaining the characters is not their primary monetization goal.
> By this logic, someone being upset about anything they're being passionate about is childish.




Lol only in the world of online gaming do people use willingness to throw a tantrum as a measure of "passion." But I don't know why I expected reasonable,
balanced emotional responses from people passionate about Gacha games of all things
It was a bit of hyperbole. I had my 4chan days, but the Genshin community has the unique ability to have their crazy make the front page with some consistency
>You're completely right and that's why people are upset

Yeah, no. People are upset because GI's anniversary does little to show their appreciation for the fanbase that made their game as big and popular as it is, nothing
to thank them for all the money they've spent on the game. So many other gacha games know how to treat their playerbase right and the playerbase is appreciative
and continues to support them in turn.
> since even far less successful gachas will offer free pulls as a token of respect for the support the community has given.

I thought the less successful you are, the more rewards you're giving out? and genshin is much more popular than any other gacha i've every heard about
Its within their usual schedule of releasing content anyways and hasnt
been any better then previous, usual content, is what he wanted to say.
I'm not familiar with Battlefront 2's monetization system, but if the outrage is because they didn't give out free stuff which they never promised to give out in the first
place, then yes I'd feel the same way. My assumption though is that the other communities actually have a point to their argument, instead of something which is
literally feeling entitled to free stuff you were never promised. This reads like spoiled brats throwing a tantrum because they didn't get what they want
>They have no excuse *not* to do this given their position,

They are not obligated in any way to do this because players are not entitled to it in the first play, therefore they don't even need any excuse to not do it.

>so it's seen as corporate greed on their part

Asking for things they aren't even entitled to is pure player greed
Except for the real life holiday it's based on happened a week ago so they delayed the event in order for it to fall on THIS date

Also i don't know where you're playing but I didn't get access to the event until midnight on the 28th

Not to mention that people always like to cite Honkai's anniversaries but those are tied to holidays typically as well. The anniversary from this year for the global
server (which had the bunny girl outfit fiasco) was on the game's chinese new year patch. Most of those rewards had nothing to do with global's anniversary and
were just the standard CNY rewards
[removed]
Some of the f2p characters are good and I think most of them are fun. Xiangling in particular is quite fun and very strong.

But you're right the fact that its built around the gacha means it does drag the game down a lot.
I mean, was I?

I don't even play gachas, it's just a question of principle.
It'll be hard to decipher the actual impact. Raiden made them enough money to fund several year's of development. The banner after that (still running) has
[performed terribly](https://www.reddit.com/r/Genshin_Impact/comments/pt6hmf/kokomi_banner_revenue_on_first_day_cn/).

Granted - that's due more in part to the character than the anniversary but, uh, that's sort of my point. Even if sales "take a hit" it would be hard to see that
translated to sales.
agreeded. people are mad but I don't expect them to leave or stop spending.

there's still a lot of big $$$$ fan favorite characters out there and all they need to do is release them to print money.
The issue is a few things.

Genshin is very unique for gachas. There are no gachas with a production value like Genshin atm, even if it isnt actually that expensive for them to make, Genshin
still looks like a console release. On top of that it features gameplay that, for the most part, is fully fleshed out. There's quests and a world to explore, side quests,
dungeons, challenge content, etc. There is enough there to keep someone busy for a bit. Its also got genuinely good character designs, which goes a long way for a
gacha. Add in how fleshed out gameplay is, and you got a recipe for making people really fall for characters.

And then you got this weird die hard community that will practically die for Genshin. I have yet to figure out why, but for some reason there is a lot of overlap with
the Steven Universe, She-Ra, RWBY, etc fandoms, and they will go down with their IP even if its the worst thing on earth. It can do no wrong, and these are the
people who make up Genshin's fandom, at least on twitter. I have no idea why it was able to get that audience, but it did.

Mix all that together and you got a game that gives just enough to players on a gameplay front, with a fandom that has a death grip on it. It would take Genshin
monumentally fucking up to break that. Which they have been lately, between under delivering on content only a year into the game, and the fuck up that is their
anniversary.

Im under the impression Genshin is only a flash in the pan ultimately. Genshin proved this model can work, a gacha game with a high production value. All its going
to take is a mix of MiHoYo's own stupidity, of which they've already displayed, and some competition on the console gacha games front for Genshin to fall from its
#1 spot. So its only a matter of time.
The first comment isn't saying mihoyo is generous in an absolutist sense. They're speaking relative to their current actions. Relative to literally any other game what
they're saying wouldn't be considered generous. They were MORE generous than they are now, but that does not mean they were generous straight up.


The second one is also all about how Mihoyo GOT generous later on and has nothing to do with the current state of genshin. In fact i would say their comment
points towards the opposite. If they have to let people know that mihoyo will eventually become generous doesn't that imply they think they are not generous
currently?

>rewriting history here?

maybe at best you could find some fringe comments from people who have no experience with gacha games before saying it's generous, but it is unquestionably
not rewriting history to say that's has been the consensus from the start. Look up any thread from /r/games or /r/gachagaming or any forum more dedicated to actual
gacha players as opposed to random youtubers and see for yourself.
I play a lotta gacha and I would happily remove it if it could be packaged as a $60 game. I play them despite the gacha, not because of them.

IDK why others do this. /r/gachagaming has some very weird mentalities in some users where they just use some games to get a quick fix and get out. for example,
check out the top reaction in a [good anniversery post]
(https://old.reddit.com/r/gachagaming/comments/puclwy/dragalia_lost_3rd_anni_starts_0926_11pm_pst_480/)

>Oh cool, time to download dragalia lost again just for my yearly dose of dopamine rush

Sad part is that this is mostly unironic.
To explain this, let's divide gacha players up into three categories:

Whales: gladly dish out all the dough they need to obtain the characters they want and revel in the gambling experience.

Dolphins: ocassionally spend money to optimize their experience (e.g. monthly passes), but have to be more careful than whales in terms of their resource
allocation.

Minnows: near/full F2P, cannot for one reason or another rely on money to obtian the characters they want.

Free pulls are especially impactful for minnows and dolphins, which (and I'm going on a limb here) make up the majority of a gacha's playerbase. To deny free pulls
to these players is to say 'if you don't want to spend a good chunk of money on this you're SoL' which as you can assume strikes a nerve, especially since again a
good portion of these players *do not play for the gacha experience alone.*
Sure, it makes getting a character feel more special, like in genshin impact you have 3 weeks to get a character that then wont be back for a year in some cases.
Also there's no incentive or demand for a character collector game that isnt live service with a community around it.
Because most of the gambling he describes is not about getting the character you want, but about getting the character you already have stronger and saying its
not necessary anyway that they are stronger.
The intended purpose of a review system is to express your opinion about a given product. I will give to you that those reviews that are only atacking the developers
shouldn't be there. But the ones that are complaining about the game and specifically about the anniversary update are as valid as any other.
The only thing I can think of is that you might've been participating in a temporary event. But I'm not sure what event you were doing if you've only ever played the
game for like 8 hours in total.


> I absolutely remember clearing the first town of those worthless chests and some new ones popped up.

If not an event, what most likely happened is you didn't actually clear the first town of the treasure chests and you found ones that you didn't see before. There are
TONS of treasure chests in the overworld area in Genshin (I think there are easily around over 1,500 of them at the moment), but they don't show up as icons on
the map if not during an event, and they don't respawn.
> What even the fuck is all this dumb shit?

well, the actual game doesn't show you this. It will say "drop rate: 0.7%", "use 1 wish to pull", and then you slowly grind up more "wishes" for pulls, not telling you
how many wishes you actually expect to get.

I'm just breaking down what and why you'll "feel" after playing for a few months and being frustrated that you still can't guarantee getting exactly what you want.
Can't really make someone feel 3 months of genshin in a comment, so numbers.

>What even the fuck is all this dumb shit?

Amen dude
He didn't mention that in those 142-180 pulls you wlll actually have 2 highest rarity characters, not one. You need around 74+ (soft pity) to 90 (hard pity) pulls to
obtain highest rarity character. 180 (worst pull case scenario) will actually give you two highest rarity characters. From there, there are 2 scenarions: best (you win
50/50 twice so you get 2 characters from limited banner), worse (you lose 50/50 so first character is from standard banner but second one is guaranteed from
limited banned).

The way he wrote it, you would think that you need 142-180 to obtain single highest rarity character which is not true.
No, 50-80 pulls is, in the latter half.

I didn't want to discuss actual rates because %'s don't mean that much to someone here, so I used "33 pulls on average to pull highest rarity unit" to describe 3%
rates vs. Genshin's 0.7% (142 pulls).
> how did you get at 142 pulls average?

0.7% rates. I don't think people outside of mobile games would understand what that means so I tried to explain everything in terms of pulls instead of switching
between rates, pull currency, and f2p allowance.

But yes, I could have delinieated between the 90 pull pity for any 5 star and the 180 pull for the banner character
So, Genshin banners have two pities. You have the standard "hard pity" at 90 summons. This is the absolute highest you'll go before you pull a 5 star. However,
after 75 summons, the chance of getting a 5 star goes up dramatically, which is what people call the "soft pity". Personally, I don't think I've ever reached the 90
summons pity. Most of my 5 stars were pulled around 75-80 summons in.

There's also a 50% chance of pulling an off-banner 5 star. If this happens, then the next 5 star is guaranteed to be the banner character. Thankfully this carries over
banners, but if you recently pulled the featured character then you'll have to go up against the 50-50 odds next banner, which is why people often say the possible
worst case scenario is 180 pulls for a character you want. However, by taking the soft pity into account (and I assure you, 75 summons might as well be the hard
pity due to how commonly it'll give you a 5 star), it's honestly closer to ~150 summons.
Yes, it is. What I meant was that Genshin is using a gacha style monetization that is pretty much in every modern mobile game in the past 6 years, and that the
console/PC gaming side of the fanbase who only looked at genshin and nothing else may not be aware on how other mobile games not on console typically carry
out their anniversary.

So one side of the fanbase can feel that they are being ripped off if they played almost any other kind of gacha. Wheras the people who just know Genshin may not
understand what's up. Hence why the article makes no sense to one side while being clear to another.
It's more of a replacement for Honkai - my bad. It's also 3-4 years out, so...who knows how well Genshin is doing at that point. I assume it would still be wildly
profitable but it won't last forever. No idea what Mihoyo's criteria is for dropping support.
MiHoYo has a pretty good history of keeping their games updated.

Their oldest game Gun Girls Z (Houkai Gakuen 2) still receives updates and is on their 7th year in operation.

Honkai: Star Rail seems to be a sequel to Honkai Impact 3rd, but the gameplay is vastly different from what I've seen.
almost every single gacha has a paid guaranteed 5 star thing for anniversary(and sometimes an additional one for new years, or half anniversary), either you pick
or through another gacha, but usually its 15$ to 30$ at most for it plus other stuff
It is.

Regardless I would never take FGO as measurement of quality. It completely lives and dies by its Fate ties. Gameplay and QoL it had are abysmal for amount of
money it earned. And last two years have been terrible with content droughts and poor events. It had one “hype” release this year and that’s hardly good business
model to look up to.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest-grossing_mobile_games
Every game above it has been out for longer and it's still one of the highest grossing gacha ever
FGO only spikes like 3-4 times a year, then spends the rest of the time outside of top 10 while genshin has consistently maintained top 10 spot over the entire last
year.
Yeah, the gacha game subculture definitely feels pretty off to me. I'm in my mid thirties and needed a game with low time commitment and a low skill floor. My
typical fair is roguelikes/lites and games like Monster Hunter and I wanted something more chill. But I still wanted something that still offered a lot of progression (I'm
a progression addict) and Genshin fit that bill perfectly when it came out.

That being said, it's been my first gacha and it has come with a lot of weird ass shit. On one hand the way the game is constantly subtly (and not-so-subtly) pulling
at your psyche with FOMO, character attachment, etc. is pretty fucking gross. There's a shit-ton of "girl/boyfriend simulator" type shit, where the content is obviously
designed to get you attached to the characters. But on the other hand, the community is really into it? People are *obsessed* with these characters. The main sub
is basically unusable, although the theorycrafting community for the game is pretty level-headed, from what I can tell. And that obsession seems to turn into crazy
and irrational anger if the game/developers do something the community doesn't like. It's pretty shocking to read through the main subreddit, frankly. The grasp on
reality is tenuous at best.

All that being said, I don't know if it's a matter of that specific audience, or more about the age range of the playerbase. I'd imagine a lot of the engaged players are
teens or in their very early 20's. It definitely feels like a bunch of teenage angst and drama a lot of the time, at the very least. I haven't really played another super-
popular game with an audience demographic like that (League is probably the closest and that community is pretty ridiculous as well). So I dunno if this is just the
norm these days, or if it's a gacha-specific thing. The whole thing doesn't sit great with me though, even though I enjoy the game quite a bit. The monetization and
way the game leans into it is super gross and I don't feel like a lot of the community is really equipped to handle it in a healthy way.
Huh, I wonder why you aren't getting reasonable, balanced emotional responses. I mean, the only thing you did was ignored the previous valid responses and
explanations in favor of calling the entire community entitled babies. Jeez, why is everyone upset? Weird.
People are willfully choosing to ignore this.
[Have a piece of gaming history.](https://www.reddit.com/r/StarWarsBattlefront/comments/7cff0b/seriously_i_paid_80_to_have_vader_locked/dppum98/) Most
downvoted comment in reddit history.

The game released with an absurd progression system with power in loot boxes. Which players did not appreciate. They expected and wanted more traditional non-
monetized progression. That's not what they got. The game failed to meet the expectation of the players, for that, they got a lot of backlash, which they deserved.
From what I've heard, the game is now in a much better state.
>Asking for things they aren't even entitled to is pure player greed

There's a difference between asking for a glass of water and the entire Mississippi river. Besides, players are allowed to be a bit greedy when they're helping keep
**one of the most profitable gachas in the world** alive, no? If not through money then through data, word of mouth, community engagement etc.

>They are not obligated in any way to do this

No, but (especially in the East) it's seen as common courtesy and a sign of respect for the playerbase's committment to the product. Denying players this respect
(especially when you exploit them as is) is just asking for trouble.
To me, it's strange that you consider the entitlement of the player, which dismisses the entitlement of the company. The company is not entitled to a happy satisfied
playerbase. If the company has failed to satisfy their userbase, users actually ARE entitled to give their opinion on it.
I have no stake in this but the lengths you're going to make excuses for the poor *gacha game corporation* is honestly a little concerning lmao
Not being treated like shit unless you're a top spender is now considered greedy? Especially when basically all competition and even the other game by the same
company handles it way better?
Yeah it's pretty amazing to see people say "well the company is very successful financially so they should give us free stuff" and then claim to not be entitled.
[removed]
The royal 'you' in this case.
Further complicating that is that it's expected that the next update will be character reruns with the exception of the one new 4star - Thoma - who is rumored to be
coming on the 2nd banner.

Even moreso if Childe does get his third banner as is expected based on various details.
Isn't it just *slimy* how they tease these pretty new characters, going so far as to have you interact with them in big story beats only to then lock the character
behind a low drop % slot machine? It's so shitty to do that, preying on people's love for anime characters.

>Oh cool, time to download dragalia lost again just for my yearly dose of dopamine rush

That comment is a tongue and cheek jab at Dragalia lost. Dragalia is a game that isn't very popular and not many people play, but for their anniversary they're
offering a ton of rewards

The joke here is that the person doesn't actually want to play dragalia and they think the only thing it's good for is giving away a lot of rolls to try and entice people
(something it's known for doing)

The person isn't being literal lol. It's a joke.
That has nothing to do with what I was talking about. The initial comment I replied to said

>why would anyone *want* the Gacha part?

My point was that people can enjoy gambling for the sake of gambling so they can enjoy gacha for the sake of gacha too. Explaining to me the tiers of financial
engagement in gacha games is a complete non-sequitur off of that. Do *all* players? No, certainly not, but they're still out there.
Where do hammerhead sharks fit into all this?
I don't want to really get into this much more. But I'm sure you agree that if there is a 10 point scale, and a company does a thing you don't like, it doesn't take your
actual opinion on the product from a 9 to a 1. You are giving it a 1 because you want to do as much damage as possible because you are upset. This is not a
rational system.
Average would actually be precisely 93.75 pulls for the limited character. Each 5* averages 62.5 pulls [1]. Then there's a 50% chance to double the pulls needed (to
125) to get the limited character.

[1] This is based on the game's own advertised 1.6% consolidated probability & data collection from 3rd party sites. If we just calculated a flat 0.6% or 0.7% chance
up to 89 pulls, it would result in a worse average rate as shown above. The advertised average rate is achieved by soft pity starting on roll 74.

Of course average rate doesn't really reflect personal experience. Most people will get their limited 5* at around 80 rolls or 160 rolls. The chance of 5* after only a
few rolls really pulls down the average.
So how can you call it the most successful ever when it's not at the top? It may well be one day but not yet.
While true, FGO has also been out for 6 years. You're comparing popularity right now of a 6 year old game against one that only just reached it's first anniversary.

Obviously the newer one is going to be more popular at the minute but that doesn't make it the most successful one ever.

If Genshin is dead in a year while Fate still trucks along are you still going to claim it's the most successful?


And even aside from that, FGO was a single example. If you really want to talk about the msot successful you have to talk about Puzzle and Dragon which has
close to double FGO's total revenue.
> There's a shit-ton of "girl/boyfriend simulator" type shit, where the content is obviously designed to get you attached to the characters. But on the other, the
community is really into it? People are obsessed with these characters.

Yeah, that's just japanese media nowadays (at least, for games, anime, and manga). You'd be surprised what kinds of pre-release promotion they do over there to
get people attached to characters they haven't even played yet. Attach a famous Seiyuu (voice actor) to the character and you got an idol "metagame" situation
before you ever put in the disc.

Not saying it's good or bad, just the situation. It's their equivalent to celebrity advertisement of big games in the west.
> People are obsessed with these characters

tell me about it

and don't get started on the next level of those obsessed people, the shippers
> There's a shit-ton of "girl/boyfriend simulator" type shit

A shit-ton, huh. Yeah those locked relationship questlines that take all of half an hour and feature like 20% of the characters in the game sure is a "shit-ton".
Yep, the main community makes it to the front page sometimes, and it's like gazing in to a depressing nightmare void.


> So I dunno if this is just the norm these days, or if it's a gacha-specific thing.


Honestly it just feels like the perfect storm combo of Gacha addicts and lonely/waifu types. Bothe easily fleeced and easily pushed off the edge
> Besides, players are allowed to be a bit greedy when they're helping keep one of the most profitable gachas in the world alive, no?

They certainly are.

And when they realize the company doesn't care and can do what they want, I used to pity that (no pun intended for gacha fans). But idk, it's been 6 years of this
and I've seen the behavior in several fanbases. At this point it's hard to empathize and have to say time and time again "these companies don't care about you, stop
spending money if you want change".
>>Asking for things they aren't even entitled to is pure player greed
>
>There's a difference between asking for a glass of water and the entire Mississippi river.

There is no difference between acting out when your not given something you're not entitled to.

>Besides, players are allowed to be a bit greedy when they're helping keep **one of the most profitable gachas in the world** alive, no?

What bullshit. Genshin is alive and profitable because it's a game that millions want to play. Players are not playing genshin and keeping it alive as a favor to mhy.
So again, mhy owes players nothing. This is like arguing players owe mhy for making a game they want to play.
> The company is not entitled to a happy satisfied playerbase.

They are not. But if the company is still raking 10's of millions a month, then they don't care about a happy playerbase. Especially if it's just vocal peopel on the
internet and not the actual whales spending money.
Sounds like if the competition is doing better you go to them.
I believe the next banner has Xinyan on it as well, plus an event that gives out a free Xinyan. That's gonna hurt sales if true.
I mean thats a universal gacha thing.

A lot of gacha will include a new character in the story to give you a reason to care, otherwise its based entirely on appearance/design alone. Which *can* be a
draw, but its not a perfect one.

The difference is Genshin is both stingy with its hand outs, and has one of the worst rates in all of gacha gaming. FGO looks more generous than Genshin and
thats saying something.

afaik Genshin hasnt even handed out a free character post launch, which is a very common practice for other gachas.
> Dragalia is a game that isn't very popular and not many people play


you'd think so, but the more you read on more of these posts, up to some people just asking for games with tons of pulls. It gets worrying.

Also, it's not like Dragalia is some small cashgrab. It's published by Nintendo and developed by Cygames (one of the more experienced mobile studios). It never got
anywhere near Genshin's levels, but it brings in a pretty penny. Think it's a bit of an exaggeration to say that no one plays it and it's a niche title.
People do enjoy the act of playing gacha for the sake of gacha. It's gambling in a different format. Some manage to only do that with the free currency you get and
others often also due to mental health issues give in and spend actual money. But it gives everyone pleasure all the same.
>people can enjoy gambling for the sake of gambling so they can enjoy gacha for the sake of gacha too

It's hard to enjoy the gacha aspect when (depending on the gacha) grinding rolls can take an eternity, and as I was trying to explain above not everyone has a
bunch of money they can dump into the rolling experience. You could ask why people play gacha games when they don't have money to dish out, but it's the same
answer as to why people gamble when they don't have a stable bank account.
I'm not that person and I called it one of the most not the most.
l'm not the one claiming it's most successful tho (since i'm not the one you were replying to). However, right now it has way more pull than FGO. longevity is
something we have to wait and see, since depends on how many more fiascos mihoyo will cause.
Obviously what constitutes a "shit-ton" is going to vary from person to person, as it's a subjective metric. My perspective is as someone who is unfamiliar with these
kinds of games, and it does feel like a genuine shit-ton to me.

That being said, it sounds like you are only referring to those dating-game quests (hangouts?). I'm more referring to essentially every interaction with every pull-able
character in the game. I enjoy the story of the game, but outside of the main beats, it's pretty clear that the majority of our interactions with the characters are
overtly designed to build an attachment between the player and that character. There is an immense amount of romantic tension between the traveler and basically
every eligible character, other characters are cast into the little sister/older sibling/rival/mentor role, etc. etc.

To me, as a relative outsider to the genre, it feels pretty on-the-nose and obvious what the underlying intentions are. They want you to have an emotional
attachment with as many pull-able characters as possible. You could make a lot of the same points about the party in a game like Mass Effect, and I'd largely
agree, but here it does feel particularly manufactured in order to support the monetization scheme of the game.
So if you don't agree with them then why even argues against me?
If you don't agree with the other comment then why even bother arguing with me?

I know this game isn't super popular but from what I've heard it's reasonably fun for a little while. I've held off buying but with it coming to Gamepass I'll check it out
for a bit.
Play this game on easy. Nothing kills the vibe of this game more than getting fucking styled on by A.I.M trooper number 32 with a fucking shotgun and grenades,
when youre supposed to be the fucking Hulk.

Seriously, if you don't play perfectly as The Hulk his gamma meter doesn't refill properly, which means you cant do the moves that refill your health, which means
2/3 equl level A.I.M soldiers WILL beat you down.

Once I popped it on easy and I started to tear through guys it was fun, which is a shame because the rest of the Heroes felt more fun to play as on normal/hard.
PC also? That's cool. Outriders was console only so this is nice. I wonder if it will have crossplay with Steam players or just Xbox console players.
This is actually a really good game pass game. The actual campaign is actually pretty good. It’s the post-campaign stuff that feels like grindy filler.

I definitely recommend it if you already have game pass.
Is this even worth the time it will take to download?
So is this game good for a few casual sessions with friends? Everyone is saying to play it for the single player story, but I thought multiplayer was a core aspect of
the game. Also, is the multiplayer available from the start, or do you have to complete campaign missions first?
How is this game nowadays? Can someone join in with friends and pass the campaign together, or is this mainly a single player game?
I would recommend giving it a shot if you like Marvel. Just find a character that fits your playstyle since all of them feel pretty different.
It’s not worth paying for this game so it’s good that it’s available for basically free.

Just remember to dip as soon as the credits roll, the whole game turns into “do the exact same tedious shit for no rewards while we desperately try to steer you into
the shop every week.” The live-service looter elements in this game are the worst I’ve ever seen by far, and I say that as someone who loves live-service looters.
The grind is slow and uninteresting, the loot system is not engaging or exciting at all, and there’s simply too much repetition and time-gating for a game with this
little to do in it.
Any idea if saves/progress sync with you Square Enix account or whatever? Wouldn't mind finishing off the campaign I played partially through on the free weekend
on Steam, but would rather not start over.
This isn't cross save is it? Since the game saves locally (which is kinda crazy for a multiplayer loot grind title)
Oh thank you Gamepass, I did not want to outright purchase this unless it was sub $10 and just for a campaign run, so this will do me juuuuust fine. A quick run and
I'm good, no harm no foul.
I really think the campaign is really only good in relation to the post campaign broken looter/brawler it becomes. If you compare it to Insomniac's Spider-man series
or Rocksteady's Arkham series - the story is pretty mediocre at best


It's like a 5 out of 10. If that was the only portion of the game, people would think chunks were missing or that it was unfinished - the story is really janky at times.
The underpinning post game repetitive loot crawler hooks are glaringly obvious in terms of how surface level the single player campaign feels and why you keep
seeing either the same assets or really odd level design choices that don't feel right (it's because they are there for the post single player game portion).
Don't waste your time, this game is truly awful. It doesn't respect your time, it plays like shit, and they have the audacity to keep adding content when the base
game is still a trash pile

Awful gameplay, level design, quests, progression, literally everything besides the absolutely *meh* story and neat graphics.

Seriously, go play other games like this, this one is bad.
Fuck yeah, this is the perfect gamepass game for me.

I've been curious enough for a while and want to try it, but certainly not enough that I want to buy it. I just want to scratch the itch and this will accomplish that.
Games pass is a great alternative to F2P for Square Enix. This game has failed so miserably that they have to find a way to get people in the door for those sweet
sweet micro-transactions. This way they still get some $$ from Microsoft.
It's buried in the article a ways, but it seems you do get the next gen version with Gamepass unlike when it was on PS Now.
Fuck yes.


I almost bought it the other day, but though:


"Nah bruv, it'll be on Game Pass soon"

Saved myself about 300kr, and I got a pizza with the money instead.
I was hoping this would be a spiritual successor to Ultimate Alliance. Please someone tell me I’m somewhat right.
great time to get gamepass. all bethesda games, psychonauts 2, avengers. forza and halo infinite soon.
This is a very fun campaign featuring a satisfying gameplay and a solid story centered around an Avenger that most MCU fans have yet to get to know at all. And I
also had a ton of fun playing co-op with a buddy several times. People love to rag on this game, which has created such low, low expectations that, I suspect, will
be greatly exceeded when they actually try the game out.
[deleted]
Wow! Every time it's been on sale I've considered it but haven't purchased yet. I'm glad I held off, since I'll definitely play it on Game Pass for the campaign.
Glad I held off on this game due it obviously being sub par. Will have a go at being some superheroes that is to game pass
This game was deff not worth a full 60$ but as a game pass addition its a good time. I liked it alot when the game first came out wonder whats been added since
them.
I almost bought this game on sale this week. I just want to try it out for some mindless fun maybe, I dont plan on fully playing through it so this is a nice surprise.
Recently bought this on sale for $20 in order to play with some friends who are comic geeks like me. We've been having a lot of fun with it so far. It's definitely a
nice change up from just playing shooters together.
I knew I'd get it through gamepass or PS+ eventually. Happy to try it, and happy not to have to spend money to try it.
So I know the main campaign is single player only, but is there any kind of co-op campaign I could do with a friend as well? Or is it just a bunch of aimless grinding
with no story or bespoke levels?
Was debating pulling the trigger the other day, watched some videos, got a pretty big meh from it, decided to hold off. Game Pass is the best.
If i remember correctly, campaign is quite decent. Think this is alone would be worth it as gamepass game.
Glad its coming . I was kinda peeved when they put it on PS Now then limited it to only the PS4 version.
Regardless of what you think about Marvel's Avengers, this is a good thing.

Services like Game Pass let players play titles that they may not necessarily buy because they're not big-hitting releases. It gives games like these more exposure.
This is a good example of the advantage of game pass for devs and gamers.

Devs get to breath life into a game that's under performing and gamers get to try something out they wouldn't normally pay for.
I have a good bit of time played almost entirely solo. All I can say basically is that the combat is really fun, the boss fights are good, and the story and character
dialogue are engaging enough that I’m still playing on and off when new content releases. If you like Marvel and like just kinda mindless gameplay loops with fun
combat and a ton of unlockables (the microtransactions are a pain but you know, they aren’t mandatory) then it’s at least worth checking out
It's definitely worth playing through the campaign, so this is a win. I played it on a PS4 Pro, but I'd be happy to replay the campaign on my PC. I never played any of
the DLC either, so that will be cool to get through.

I haven't touched it in a while, but I remember enjoying the combat while playing. The endgame grind, however, left a lot to be desired. Not sure if that has improved
in any way.
Its pretty fun campaign, post game I can't speak of but I imagine with a group of friends could be pretty fun for a decent chunk of time at least. Great gamepass
game, definitely worth trying, if you're friends have gamepass I'd recommend trying to play it with them, and then whenever you get tired of it just drop it.
God, Subnautica, Sable, Back 4 Blood, Age of Empires 4...now this I have to many stuff to play in the next month.

I would really love if it was possible to know which games are going to leave GamePass with more time.
The campaign is good, with solid story and performances.

The post campaign grind is not worth it.
The campaign is rock solid and SUPER fun until you hit the social space. Once you have to start picking missions off a map and doing the arbitrary gear leveling BS
the quality plummets lightning fast

There's a solid game in there, but it's buried under a mountain of trash live service clutter
It's fine. Just fine. It's a fairly shallow brawler looter. I played some of it during a free weekend on Steam, I've watched a couple streamers playing it. I didn't regret
playing it for free, but I'd have been annoyed if I paid full price for it.
The campaign, when it's not forcing you into the multiplayer content, is quite good. Decent story, compelling characters with excellent performances, and some
fantastic setpieces. If you stay away from the multiplayer, it's definitely worth checking out.
I am in a similar boat.

That said, I checked out the demo/beta or whatever it was right before it first launched, and I got bored before the tutorial level was over.
Combat is fun and actually feels pretty sarisfying.

Everything else sucks. First couple campaign missions feel really great. Then they force you to grind with live service side missions. Which are quite possibly the
most boring and uninspired missions I’ve played in a long time.

Even at the 20$ sale price point I wasn’t biting. Maybe I’ll get it when it’s ps+ but there’s so many good games out there I don’t see Avengers worth the time.

It’s pretty sad because like I said, core combat is a ton of fun
Definitely does not deserve nearly the amount of flak it's typically given imo. The single player campaign is great and has a pretty solid amount of content and will
take some time to get through (unless you skip every single side mission). I haven't played it too much since the end of last year and, at least at the time, the post
game definitely did get a bit grindy and samey (and this coming from someone who absolutely loves D2 and is used to the gameplay model). That being said, I still
got a solid 25-30 hours of playtime out of it and thoroughly enjoyed my time with the game. The actual combat itself feels fantastic and the variance in playstyles
between the characters is great.

Since then they've also added Kate Bishop, Hawkeye, Black Panther, and the Wakanda DLC campaign so I imagine most people will get 30+ hours out of it pretty
solidly.
It's really not. Bad gameplay layered on top of awful quest design, level design, and progression. Wouldn't play this game with a 10 foot controller.
Been playing on PS5. I'm having a blast honestly. Of course I haven't got to the grinding multiplayer part yet but single player is fun. And the game is actually a lot
harder than I expected. Single story missions automatically scale to the hero's power level you're playing as.
The campaign was really good. Absolutely give that at once through. After that promptly uninstall it. The “endgame” is hot garbage and not worth engaging with.
Oh for sure, the complaints I've heard make it seem unreasonable for the asking price but for free my standards are much lower.

The best part of Gamepass is that I've played a lot of games I wouldn't have otherwise.
The gameplay is fun as hell. I still run the online missions with a group of 3 friends from time to time and we have a blast
The campaign is good, after that the game is garbage.
Honestly I really liked it. Campaign was fun to play, characters are mostly well written and performance is also pretty good, gameplay really isn't that bad (playing
Black Widow was great imo). Some levels can be a bit repetitive but I didn't see any reason to grind, so I just didn't play them.
It's definitely a Gamepass/deep sale game. It's got potential and they've slowly been building it... but it's just not there for a full game yet. But on Gamepass or for
$20? Sure, absolutely.

Although I'm sure people who download it will be pissed to find out that they're releasing Spider-Man shortly... as a PlayStation exclusive.
Yeah I was surpirsed at how hard the game actually is even on Normal. But doesn't the single player missions automatically scale to your power level? So it's never
gonna be curb stomping?
I'll never understand why people get hung up on the Hulk not being an unstoppable machine. Yeah, I get the lore, but that doesn't work within the rules of the game
and would just make Hulk feel absolutely broken and overpowered.

Having said that, some enemies do feel unfair (haven't played in a while, so dont know if that was ever balanced). But that happens against all heroes.
Not sure about crossplay but it’ll be on Gamepass on PC
I'm wondering about save data from the Steam version. I played during that free weekend a while back and I wouldn't mind jumping back in to try the Wakanda
DLC, but it would be a bummer if I had to start all over again.
Borrowing one of the top comments. Will this have the next gen version attached too or no? I know some game pass games don’t come with the series s/x upgrade,
just wanted to clarify.
[removed]
If you like single player story games, the base campaign can be done in 6-8 hours.

The rest of the game is boring and repetitive.

The dlc story campaigns are fine but don't have a lot of meat.
Yes it is. I had zero interest in the game but downloaded it on a whim for the free weekend and I fell in love with it. I put about 40ish hours in so far. I also have 2
young kids so this is a game i can hop in for a bit and feel like I have accomplished something.
Considering I can tell it to download from my phone and have it ready by the time I play next, I'm not sure the download time factors in to the equation
I really think hate for this game is overexaggerated. You can totally have fun with this game without all the MTX bullshit they got since it's mostly skins anyway. I'm
having lots of fun on PS5.
Tried to play it twice when it was on psnow, crashed twice during the intro bridge fight. Gave up.
I'd say yeah, but considering it is also on xCloud I would just mess around with it through there before downloading
As long as you just play the campaign and the new side stories it is a good game. The problem starts when you reach the end and have to do missions to grind
gear and levels.
[deleted]
It’s like 11 hours for the main campaign, and 2-3 for each expansion (3 of them).
Should be great for few casual sessions, I finished the main campaign and the war for wakanda campaign and while they were pretty good I enjoy the MP aspect of
this game more then the single player. I haven’t seen anyone say this on this post, but I also enjoyed leveling up my characters and trying to find the strongest
builds with them. Doing it all alongside 3 other randoms has been pretty fun for me so with friends It could only be better.

I can’t remember if MP is available from the start though sorry.
You can’t play the Main Campaign with friends, but you can play the Hawkeye and Wakanda campaigns in multiplayer.
Most of the campaign is solo. The main missions are designed from the perspective of one character. But there are parts that require you to play multiplayer
missions, and you can go through those with your friends if you like.
Hot trash
It's really not all that bad. Especially on PC.
The worst part for me is that even main campaign they force you to grind the terrible live service missions.

Right when you get iron man they force you to go to every single shop. Then magically there’s a huge difficulty spike for the next main mission.

Guess it’s time to stand in a small circle and punch a bunch of robots!
> Seriously, go play other games like this, this one is bad

Honestly what other superhero games are actually out there? Spider-Man... is that it? A couple of generations ago there was Prototype and Infamous, but it's
surprisingly barren considering the cinema scene for the last decade.
I fully disagree with this, the single player campaign was fun, even some of the post game stuff playing as captain America with 100% uptime on his brooklyn
brawler was so satisfying. Shame they didn't nail down a game they wanted to make.

If you're into playing as the heroes they do a decent job of translating these into the game.
Every game on GamePass with a next-gen version allows you to download that version. There are still no PS5 games on PS Now, they haven't enabled it as
possible on the client itself, so it was likely a Sony decision, not Square/Crystal's.
Dead wrong
Nope, sorry.
Hahaha great description I agree.
There's a lot on there, whether it's worth it or not depends on if any of the games interest you. The fact that Microsoft puts all their games on there is enough for me
and there are a lot of great games that I wanted to play.
I really loved Troy Baker's Bruce Banner, and Kamala Khan was great too.

I thought it was weird that they had Nolan North kinda lighten up his voice a bit, he's not as convincing as I think he would have been if he leaned a little bit more
into a gruff deeper voice (like his normal speaking voice) with the same Tony Stark sarcasm.

And Travis Willingham and Laura Bailey are right in their respective wheelhouses as Thor and Black Widow so they were great as well.

There's not much Cap in the campaign so I don't really have much opinion on his actor, but he does good enough in the bits he's in.

The biggest miss in the campaign IMO is the amount of villains. It felt like they really should have tried to have at least one villain for each hero. Iron Man and Cap
still don't really have "their own" villains. Even Kate Bishop came with the mega synthoid or whatever it was called, which isn't really "her villain" but it's something
> The campaign is good, with solid story and performances.

I really think the campaign is really only good in relation to the post campaign broken looter/brawler it becomes. If you compare it to Insomniac's Spider-man series
or Rocksteady's Arkham series - the story is pretty mediocre.

It's like a 5 out of 10. If that was the only portion of the game, people would think chunks were missing or that it was unfinished - the story is really janky at times.
The underpinning post game repetitive loot crawler hooks are glaringly obvious in terms of how surface level the single player campaign feels and why you keep
seeing either the same assets or really odd level design choices that don't feel right (it's because they are there for the post single player game portion).
thats not true at all the campaign is just as awful. Just because it has a little bit more effort than the life service garbage didnt make it any good. if it was only the sp
it would be a 5 out of 10 at best. The boring live service quest design starts 2-3 hours into the story mode and before that its super simplistic "gameplay" on rails.
The campaign is incredibly boring, Kamilia Khan is not a good character she’s a fan fiction
Campaign is all I want, so I can happily be done with it and uninstall. This is great news for me.
Sounds like another Outriders
Some games should just have a finish.
> Definitely does not deserve nearly the amount of flak it's typically given imo.

Considering the vast majority of criticism is around the grindy, boring, same-y, MTX infested multiplayer grind and not the single player game, I disagree. It's one of
the worst designs I've seen this side of a gacha game. It's got a decent campaign, fun, not groundbreaking. I don't think your opinion is dissimilar.
> would just make Hulk feel absolutely broken and overpowered

The Hulk IS overpowered. If a game let's you fight the same enemies with Black Widow or Hulk they absolutely should not be comparable.
I played the demo and it got pretty hairy at points. I think games like this need to strike the balance between gameplay and roleplay. If I'm Hulk I want to feel
powerful and shouldn't be struggling on jobbers but if it's mindlessly easy it's just boring.
It was a free upgrade, so I'd expect it to come with it. It seems to be like that only for games with paid upgrades like NBA.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
> If you like single player story games, the base campaign can be done in 6-8 hours.

You'll get more time than that out of it. Howlongtobeat has Avengers main storyline only at 11.5 hours. The "rushed" time is just under 9 hours.
Interesting, I personally don't care too much about superheros but I'm sure I could play it with my girlfriend's son and have a good time.
I don't think it is tbh. The game release buggy as hell on top of being grindy and had a bad monetization model. I think the hate is deserved but I haven't been
keeping up with it recently so idk if they reverted a lot of the old negatives.
I didn't grind at all; I played through the campaign and then did the dlc campaigns in one go, but it wouldn't allow me to do Future Imperfect part one beyond the
beginning so I jumped straight to part two. I had no issue with the end boss fight, so experiences may vary.
You can actually play...some of the campaign with friends. It's been a while so my memory has faded but I think once you unlock the war table, you can matchmake
for some of the missions.
I think the 'other games like this' would be Destiny 2 / The Division 2 with similar gameplay loops rather than games in the superhero genre.
The Arkham series, Lego series(Marvel and DC), Injustice, Suicide Squad and Arkham Knight are coming, they're definitely out there

Edit: Also forgot Marvel Ultimate Alliance and Wolverine and Spider-Man 2 in the future
Yeah it’s got a lot to improve on but no other game allows me to be an avenger with 3 other people and beat up some bad guys.
The weirdest thing is Nolan North does Deadpool in a lot of stuff so it's hard to not imagine it's Deadpool in the Iron Man suit.
The biggest problem I had with the campaign is the main story is primarily a Ms.Marvel story.

That's not a bad thing for a Ms.Marvel game, but they are doing an avengers game. As as result most of the villains revolved around MODOK and AIM.

They didn't bother to properly flesh out the other avengers. You get a short adventure with them and then you move on. Thor's role in the game is ridiculously small.
The same problem is happening in the DLC. They're spending a couple of hours to introduce the new hero and playstyle and moving on to the next one. They're not
taking any time to develop the characters.
It's definitely better than 5/10. You're comparing it to two of the best games/series ever made. If you compare it to superhero games or games in general, it fares
much better.

Also, you knew it had a looter portion beforehand, and I feel like you went into the game looking for it. I mean, reused assets, seriously? Literally every game does
that.
I won't defend the multiplayer/post game as even though I don't have a problem with it, I can see why many others wouldn't like it. Most of the time when I see
people criticize the game however, their issues with the multiplayer expand out and are applied to the entire game.

Another post in this thread is a perfect example of what I mean

>Don't waste your time, this game is truly awful. It doesn't respect your time, it plays like shit, and they have the audacity to keep adding content when the base
game is still a trash pile

>Awful gameplay, level design, quests, progression, literally everything besides the absolutely meh story and neat graphics.

This is giving the game waaaaay less credit than it deserves and is so far off the mark that I wonder if the person who posted it actually spent any decent amount of
time playing the game at all, or if they, like so many others, just latched on to the loudest voices of complaint about the endgame/multiplayer and decided the whole
game deserved to pay for it.
You missed my point entirely, or ignored it.

Lore doesn't matter here. Does it also bother you that Thor isn't wiping out enemies any faster than Captain America or Black Widow?
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
I'm also not sure that includes the post-launch story stuff in the Hawkeye, Kate Bishop and Black Panther updates, which are at least an hour each afaik (2+ hours
for Black Panther I think?)
The campaigns you cannot. But the missions outside of it, yes
Also the firaxis marvel game
Okay, I was wondering about that.... Iron Man's voice just did not feel right most of the time. >.<

I actually just bought the game when it went on sell this last weekend. If only I held out. But it was def worth the 20 dollars, and so far the loop hasn't burnt me out. I
would like to see SE dump some more game modes into it.
It's harder to imagine him not in the iron man suit - does anyone honestly believe he wouldn't be in there the second peoples backs were turned? Though, if that
pretty delightful Deadpool game from a few years back is to be believed, it's probably perfectly reasonable and canon for Stark to be played by Nolan North who's
being played by Deadpool who's being played by Nolan North who's being played by Wade Wilson who's being played by...
I was able to differentiate his Stark voice from his Deadpool voice, but idk, his was the only acting that didn't feel *quite* right and that he was almost contorting his
voice to match something (I guess they thought he needed to sound closer to RDJ's voice?) rather than doing what sounded right. He's honestly still pretty good as
iron man, I just think his was the weakest of the all star voice cast, which is strange considering I feel like he's pretty widely regarded as one of the best voice actors
in games.
>The biggest problem I had with the campaign is the main story is primarily a Ms.Marvel story.

Eh, it very quickly becomes an Avengers story as soon as you meet up with Banner. Yeah, Kamala becomes the catalyst for getting the avengers back together,
but there's a point where I think you don't even have to play as Kamala until the final boss fight where they have you switching around between *all* of the
Avengers. Ms. Marvel being there without having seen a peep out of Carol Danvers is a bit weird though, I hope they resolve that at some point.

>They're spending a couple of hours to introduce the new hero and playstyle and moving on to the next one. They're not taking any time to develop the characters.

I disagree that they're not taking any time to develop the DLC characters, I think *that's* just how they're doing it, which may not be to everyone's taste. I felt like I
got to know Kate Bishop and Clint well enough for an avengers game in their DLC stories. You're right about Thor though, I feel like he really would have benefited
from an Asgard side story. Same with cap and WW2, but those would both require unique enemies only for those missions so I can see why they didn't.
70-80 of the mobs you encounter on this game are AIM.goons.
He compared it to two Superhero games, just because they are top of that genre doesn't mean you can't compare them. In fact it means you should compare them.

If your competitors do something, you should try to keep up to them.
Thor does though, he has a multiplier on his valor so once you get a bit of it his abilities destroy enemies.

Regardless, you're the one kinda missing the point here. The idea of these superhero games is the wish fulfillment of being the characters, and the game does
really well with that with 8 out of 9 characters. I can throw Cap's shield, fly around as Iron Man, and summon lightning as Thor, but unless you put a lot of time
leveling up Hulk to max level and then build him in a specific (inefficient non-meta) way he doesn't deliver the power fantasy of being the Hulk.

Also he doesn't *have* to be overpowered, big melee and big health deliver that fantasy just fine.
[removed]
[removed]
It does not. Each one of those takes about 2-3 hours. The hawkeye one is pretty meh but Kate and Black Panther are both pretty good.
Oh yeah that's another one
Thank you for your sacrifice!
It's distinguishable enough in normal dialogue but his combat quips, especially when he's screaming, it's hard for me to not hear Deadpool.
As if comic book stories haven’t asspulled for less. I agree with everything you said but the last sentence, I think they could have contrived a bunch of scenarios to
make something like that happen.
That works in single-player games. Doesn't work well in a multi-player game like this where balance is a factor. I get the fantasy, but it just doesn't work in this type
of game.

You can argue that maybe Hulk needs to be balanced or redesigned in a different way to try and deliver that feeling better, but at the end of the day, he still has to
be on par with everyone else. That's just the kind of game this is.
[removed]
AIM bots in Cap's and Thor's backstory? Sure, comics have done random bullshit since forever, but they'd have to do some *real nonsense* to get AIM back in
time to WW2 and into Asgard before the events of the game where AIM is not a major power yet.
[removed]

The unfortunate truth is that Valve despite all the money they have can't possibly face the legal wrath of the music industry. Not many companies can or will.

But it's good that in recent years video game preservation efforts on the consumer end have ramped up substantially in cases like these.
So a game that has music will be deleted from library after five or ten years if there's no version without it?
I'd hate to play devil's advocate - but don't rely on an undocumented feature being around forever, and don't depend on the "kindness" of a vendor to give you
access to what you own. We need laws with teeth as more of our property becomes digital.
We live in an era where music can actually be patched out of your game because a publisher's license to use it has expired.

Rockstar Games are notorious for doing this. San Andreas had a lot of songs cut in subsequent releases because Rockstar were simply too stingy to renew
licensing deals. But at least they largely couldn't and didn't touch versions of the game that existing customers owned at the time.

Grand Theft Auto 4 on the other hand... they actively patched it to remove songs once their 10 year agreement expired. A company that has made billions from
fleecing consumers with a pay-to-win multiplayer mode is too stingy to renew licensing deals for a few tracks.

As much as I primarily fault the record and film industries for effectively being money-hungry cartels, I do also think games publishers should increasingly turn away
from using licensed tracks in their games, as a "fuck you" to the industry.
>"We are actually not planning to disable downloading old builds. What we are working on is an approach on handling edge cases involving unowned content, and
helping partners more easily take down builds that need to be removed for things like copyright issues," the statement reads. "We’ll have more to share on that
work when it’s ready to ship."

Helping partners remove old builds is exactly what people DON'T want Valve to be doing. The whole point of what people were doing was that they could download
older builds and devs couldn't really stop them. This is a PR answer that completely glosses over why people roll back builds. It's because they disagree with the
developer in some way.
>"We are actually not planning to disable downloading old builds. What we are working on is an approach on handling edge cases involving unowned content, and
helping partners more easily take down builds that need to be removed for things like copyright issues," the statement reads. "We’ll have more to share on that
work when it’s ready to ship."

If publishers have the option to remove old builds, the biggest ones will all take the opportunity to do so because it gives them greater control over what the
consumer is able to do. Unless Valve intends to police this and *only* allow them to take down old builds that would result in them getting sued if they didn't, they're
being extremely naïve to not realize that this will become the standard.
Another day, another outrage on this subreddit over something so minor. Probably a fraction of a percent of steam owners even knew this feature existed.
Ugh. So, Steam wants publishers to be able to yank music from old games on a whim. Sounds like they have noted our outrage, but decided to push through and
ignore it.

I think if you buy a game which includes music, you should retain access to the version of the game that includes that music forever. They need to design a
seamless way to sell a new version without that copyrighted music when their licenses expire, instead of punishing previous owners of the game who paid for a
version which included that music.

Pirated versions remain the superior product, because they ignore copyright messes like this.
so people will be able to finally play surge 2?
[deleted]
That title is a lie.

They're letting devs remove old builds. This is still basically the worst-case scenario, sprinkled with enough technicalities that they can claim the opposite.
No idea if it has been tested in courts but it would make sense to me if you once own a game with a song and that licence expires you should still have access to
that old version of the game. Like you would with a physical version. Update the game all you want and wipe soundtrack on the new sales when the licenses expire
but please respect the consumer here.
This always strikes me as backwards logic from the Music Industry. Like why would you want to intentionally limit the number of people that can experience your
work. You are effectively stopping new people from ever hearing a certain piece of music for the first time, stopping that person from saying "Oh this song is
awesome, I should go to youtube and listen to this artist more" and then from there that person may just buy some merch or purchase the album. But since they are
intentionally limiting how and where you can discover new music all that is dead now. Like a infinitesimally small number of people are basing their purchase of a
new video game on the songs in the game. So its not like the game is using the music to drive up sales, its just a bonus (in most cases). Removing the music isn't
going to stop the public from purchasing the game so might as well keep it in for free advertising.

EDIT: As an anecdote, since streamers on twitch can't listen to DMCA music anymore a lot of the streamers I watch have switched to Video Game Soundtracks or
Lo-Fi music. And there has been multiple occasions where I have asked what the streamer was listening to (!song) and added that to my playlist on youtube and
gave that artist more ad revenue. I've even purchased a video game soundtrack because I heard it being played on a stream. I just wonder what new contemporary
music I would of purchased if Twitch Streamers were allowed to stream modern music. And I think I'm not alone here.
That's why the PS2 versions of the older Grand Theft Auto games are the best versions in my opinion, Vice City isn't Vice City without Michael Jackson.
Well, without piracy.
Not automatically.

i think what they're saying is they're changing it so if a publisher needs to unpublish a game for legal reasons, they can.
Yep. We're lucky that Valve is usually consumer friendly, but we need actual laws so that other stores, or future steam if it stops being friendly, are forced to do
these things for us.
The thing is, you DONT own your games.

You own licenses which include their having the right to remove/revoke access.

Im not saying it OUGHT to be that way, but it is and its legal currently.

Getting mad at vendors for *following the law* is stupid. Get at the law and the politicians and create the public political will to enact change!
The games industry needs to just boycott this nonsense and stop buying music licenses.

I mean they won't. But it'd be nice.
Inverse is true too though: Don't let a sudden feature flag or tweet out send you into an absolute batshit tizzy over the "possible implications" either.
You don't own the games on steam, you license them. It's in their terms that no one reads.
> A company that has made billions from fleecing consumers with a pay-to-win multiplayer mode is too stingy to renew licensing deals for a few tracks.

Music licensing is *insanely* expensive.
At the same time, publishers and developers are also Valve's customers so Valve can't think about this purely from the enthusiast end-user's pespective.

If there's a case where a publisher, or Valve, are legally not allowed to distribute a certain build of a game, then it's hard to fault either Valve or the publisher for
removing that build from distribution.
>This is a PR answer that completely glosses over why people roll back builds.

It's not a PR answer, it's the actual reason behind it, whether you like it or not. License expiration is unfortunately a real thing even for video games and this is just
giving developers a tool to manage it painlessly instead of having to take down whole games at a time to sort through it.
They're literally just working on a way for devs to take down things they don't have the _right to distribute anymore..._
Developers are legally obliged to remove content they no longer have permission for.

Yeah it sucks, but if GTA 5 gets patched and removes songs then Rockstar has to do everything in their power to remove that. If you can download old patches
then there's practically no reason to patch it at all. Valve has to do this.

Likewise, a developer has every right to stop selling a particular build of their game for whatever reason. If the Superhot Dev wants to remove stuff out of the game,
it sucks, but it's their game.

I suspect Valve is going to let people download old builds at the point at which they bought the game. So someone who buys in 2021 can't dowload 2020 builds.
But someone who buys in 2020 can. Since you bought the game you should be entitled to the exact build of the game you bought on that day (in my opinion).
Are you willing to pay the crippling costs of copyright lawsuits on their behalf in that case?

Valve aren't doing this for funsies, they're protecting themselves from legal action from the notoriously litigious music industry.

Blame the developer for not negotiating long term deals on music.
GTA San Andreas is going to be removed so fast...

There's a lot of music there that has been removed due to expired licenses.
https://gamefaqs.gamespot.com/boards/868277-grand-theft-auto-san-andreas/70449592
Meanwhile, great, a developer can push an update that just removes licensed music, and not let you run the game you actually bought.
Sometimes they don't have a choice. If the devs have to remove the game due to copyright issues like the statement says, then there's no way round it
"What we are working on is an approach on handling edge cases involving unowned content" this will be stuff like being able to use all of the EU4 dlc without
purchasing it I'm guessing.
For most poeple the issue was mod compatibility, not losing access to a song that got patched out of the game.
Is it minor really? I personally don’t use it but losing the feature would directly impact modding and speedrunning communities.
The only major case for this I've seen is for Skyrim, since updates to the executable require a recompile of the script extender. This is "defeated" by simply not
allowing skyrim to update, but a lot of people don't pay attention to that until its too late.
Yeah I have no clue what’s going on or what this is. A majority of ppl don’t care about this.
I didn't even know it existed.. so yeah. Concerns are valid for modders etc. But I wouldn't be worried if feature was removed. Beta feature came to mind, looked it
up and those two are completely different things. Beta feature is going nowhere.
I love all the pearl-clutching over """game's preservation""" -- sounds so auspicious. Like preserving the rain forest.

Just admit you're pirates, okay guys? We all know you have a couple of external harddrives filled with hentai and thousands of console ROMS you've never played
you just have them there for a rainy day.
> So, Steam wants publishers to be able to yank music from old games on a whim.

What makes you think they "want" to? They have no choice, they either take the old builds down, or get sued to hell and back by the music industry.
I don't want to defend Valve or anything, but if this really is a copyright or licensing issue where they legally are not allowed to distribute certain builds then I doubt
they have a whole lot of choice in the matter. I'm guessing they aren't making these changes just for shits and giggles, but rather because there's pressure on them
to do so to prevent from being liable in some way. Not a lawyer of any kind, so I could obviously be wrong here.
> Steam wants publishers to be able to yank music from old games on a whim.

No, publishers want steam to let them yank music from old games, because music industries are pressurign publishers. No one on the game side likes this deal.

>Pirated versions remain the superior product, because they ignore copyright messes like this.

sure, for the 0.001% of the population that cares about reverting to older patches. I don't think this news shifted that population by much.
This is a problem with digital content. When you download it from Steam they are distributing it to you. They don't have the licence to so that with some music etc.

If you have it downloaded already your fine but Steam can't legally distribute it to you if the licence is expired. It's just the shitty licensing laws.
There's no want to. They have to. Music industry is pretty good at lawsuits.
Yep. There was a golden age of gaming where Steam (and streaming) was so easy and convenient that piracy became unnecessary.

Back to pirating I guess. No hard feelings, Steam's gotta do what it's gotta do and so do we.
It won't be limited to music licensing.
Why do that when they can use their hundreds of millions in profit on frivolous shit.
I don’t know why people are mad about a change done to a beta branch? Like if it’s buggy, that’s the point if it being in the beta version rather than an official
release.
The thing is that in a physical version of a game, let's say an older GTA title, those aren't in production anymore nor are they being produced and distributed via
official means. No one's making physical copies of Vice City or San Andreas anymore nor are companies going out of their way to find people with these old copies
of games and destroying them.

But digital copies to this day are still distributed and can still be bought on Steam. This raises an issue with licensing and so to be legally allowed to continue to sell
games, they either have to renew the licensing agreements (often times for older games) or be forced to remove the music.

The main caveat is that now this can affect people who had pre-existing versions with the licensed music. As far as I can tell record labels don't sell perpetual
licenses for their music to anyone so any game with licensed music not made FOR the game is a ticking time bomb on Steam.

> No idea if it has been tested in courts but it would make sense to me if you once own a game with a song and that licence expires you should still have access to
that old version of the game.

There have been plenty of cases in music where albums get edited or remastered after release, and people buying it on iTunes or whatever can't access the other
versions.

Unless the user agreement specifically says you own specifically only the version you buy (it doesn't), there's no way you can enforce it in court.
> if you once own a game with a song

The “interesting” thing is that you don’t *own* the game in any way, and you definitely don’t own any songs that come with it. The publisher “owns” the game, and
the original music publisher (label, etc) “owns” the licensed music.

Us users/players/gamers/consumers only hold a license to download and play it. So from a legal standpoint, it all comes down to their EULA and how they word it.
It’s possible it supports what you are saying, but most likely supports the publisher doing whatever they want.

To emphasize your point though in mentioning the courts: even if their EULA is not in favor of the consumer it’s possible to change these things through the court
system. It’s possible someone could sue to have access to these old builds with previously licensed music even if it’s against the EULA, and potentially help change
the laws in the process.
The thing is the developers have the option to buy perpetual licenses. They just don't because it's cheaper not to, and by the time the license expires, they've
already made all their sales.
well you can patch all that in, in all GTA versions on PC
Xbox is probably the better version as you get better framerate and higher resolution. People also have guides on downgrading the GTA PC versions or less
legitimate ways of getting them.
That supposed Trilogy Remaster will only draw my attention if they redo the music licenses.


I honestly see it unplayable without some of that music.
Unpublish as in, deleting it from your account after you've paid for it?
It comes up frequently but it's always worth repeating: Steam had a firm "no refunds allowed" policy until the EU forced Valve to add one.

Valve makes consumer friendly decisions when those decisions are a benefit to their bottom line. They won't make any consumer friendly decisions that negatively
impact their bottom line unless they're forced to.
>Getting mad at vendors for following the law is stupid.

There is a world of difference between "the law forces us to behave this way" and "the law allows us to behave this way".

A company willfully choosing to enact anti-consumer practices is not shielded from criticism simply because those practices are lawful.
Most likely wouldn't hold up in the EU, as a company cannot revoke access without justifiable reason, and if push comes to shove have to provide proof to uphold a
ban.

At least last I checked, which admittadly is a few years ago now.
Software has always been a matter of owning a license and not really anything else. The only difference is that it used to be a lot harder for a company to actually
enforce a revoked license.
That's always been the case, just with discs it was harder for distributors to control access.

> the right to remove/revoke access.

I believe in some places like the EU that's not legal. We need to fight to make it so in more countries.

The whole, you don't own the game but a license argument is nonsense anyways, and doesn't change the fact you paid for a copy of a piece of software.
> Inverse is true too though

Hard disagree. An ounce of prevention is worth more than a pound of cure.
Couldn't possibly disagree more. When there's a public hint about something then chances are that it has been brewing for a while. Stirring up a shitstorm over
obviously bad stuff is good. I don't mean to send death threats like idiots do too often but making sure that they can't possibly misinterpret the public opinion.
>You don't own the games on steam, you license them.

This is true for countries that lack the kind of digital property laws the poster above is referring to. Valve cannot punish an EU customer for reselling their account
because it violates Steam's "license" terms. Valve *can* punish customers in the US because the US lacks consumer protections and digital property laws that
prevent it.
It's also complete bullshit that they'd like you to keep believing so once they make that an actual reality with streaming services like Stadia nobody kicks up a fuss
when their games all disappear one day to the next.

You're only right in so far that we do purchase perpetual licenses of the products, but that doesn't mean we don't "own" anything we buy on Steam. We own the
games we buy on Steam as much as we own an Xbox One controller we buy on Amazon.

Additionally, terms of service or EULAs don't overrule local laws, no matter if you read them or not and no matter if you agreed to them or not. Especially in the EU,
EULAs are not laws, they're *subject to laws* to the point where an EULA contradicting said laws can invalidate the entire thing.

Give the following a read:

https://linustechtips.com/topic/953835-you-own-the-software-that-you-purchase-and-any-claims-otherwise-are-urban-myth-or-corporate-propaganda/

The tl;dr read is that in the EU your claim is just entirely wrong, while in the US it's a lot less clear cut but still trends towards granting you ownership of the copy of
software you buy.
The terms have to be agreed upon *before* the purchase in the EU. Buy physical and steam cqnnot take access to games away.
The difference is meaningless. We paid for a product, which is now ours to access. Terms can not override consumer law.
especial as the games have gotten bigger with massive budgets the music industry know this now and likely doesn't offer cheap license anymore. especial in a
game like GTA where millions of sales are possible.
Can't be too expensive for a game that's made billions.
I just hope the ToS for devs specifies it's only for cases like that. Less room for indie devs so far up their own asses that they take down older builds because they
insist that an unpopular change they made is the "right" way to play the game.
I totally get what you mean. Music companies have likely leaned on publishers, and publishers have likely leaned on Valve. And you might say, "but why not?" Well,
look around. The current fiasco with music licenses on Twitch is something that was unthinkable just a few years ago, yet here we are. Licensing and DMCA and
similar laws have become a minefield.
>Developers are legally obliged to remove content they no longer have permission for.

From sale.

Not from past purchases.
> If the Superhot Dev wants to remove stuff out of the game, it sucks, but it's their game.

So they can just remove everything from their game and replace it with a jpeg of some guy doing the finger? That doesn't seem fair.

Or are they just allowed to remove, like, a single level or something? What if that's your favourite level? What if that particular level was the whole reason you
bought the game back at launch in the first place?

I don't think this type of thing entirely takes consumer rights into account.
It should be illegal to 'unbake' a cake. IF it gets the music at reelase, the release has to stay whole. Expiring music licenses is a complete abuse of copyright and is
explicitly agasint its goal of promoting works.
On the other hand people are legally entitled to the product they bought. consumers win over multi billion dollar companies any time of the day.
I agree in the case of licensed content, there isn't a choice.

But if the Superhot dev wants to remove something original from all existing copies of their game, I disagree. They can remove whatever they want in a patch, but
banning users from playing an older version of their single player game is a dick move that benefits nobody, and is exactly why we need this option in Steam.
It won't be limited to music licensing. Devs will pull versions for any reason they like.
Valve is a multibillion dollar company, I think they can hold their own in court. Why should I be okay with them fucking me over just because I'm less likely to sue
them than the music industry?
Licenses should be perpetual, and not an extra cost. This bullshit by the record industry needs to die.
I mean it sucks that this is happening but both communities are a fraction of a fraction of the customer base and the number of people affected is miniscule enough
that this change will barely affect 90+% of the users
This is about preserving our shared cultural history and having access to the thing you paid for.
Just look at all the hoops Twitch has jumped through in response to DMCA laws over the years: from deleting videos to muting videos to selectively detecting and
muting sections of videos. Even today you can maliciously take down Twitch or Youtube channels with false DMCA claims.
Right? I highly doubt Valve """wants""" to

- spend time/money/effort developing this feature
- have their games that they sell in their store to be less appealing to buy
Even plagues on-disc content too, because updates are streamlined to modify the on-disc content. Mostly to add/tweak/fix stuff. But also these content removals
too. And it's all in the same pipeline so you can't just pick-and-choose.

Until/unless media is sold where the agreement stipulates the content of the game is *owned* by a user, not *licensed*, and that the content therein cannot be
removed, this is the current reality.
Game updates can delete your already downloaded game files off the computer. Steam is set to auto-update games by default. Thus, you lose the music unless
you see a post warning about the update before the update can be pushed through.
https://partner.steamgames.com/doc/store/retire_app

> If you need to stop selling your product for some reason, Valve can help you make the necessary changes. This documentation will be helpful if you are cancelling
or retiring a game, or if you have lost distribution rights and need to stop selling a title.

...

> Q. What happens to a retired game for the players of that game?

> A: Retired games will remain in players' Steam libraries. Those players will continue to be able to download, install, and launch the game.

Do you have any source on "Steam can't legally distribute it to you if the licence is expired"? I don't see anything connecting losing the right to sell the games and
illegality of distributing it by Steam. I own and can can download [a game, sold illegally and DMCAed by Blizzard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I7e3a1-
Z_oM).
Are you sure about that? They are distributing (allowing to download) delisted games, even if they are delisted because of licensing.
Convenience is such a huge factor in piracy. When Netflix got huge piracy of series and movies went down because most of what people wanted to watch was
there, one platform, one payment with the convenience of watching any time you want. Now that Netflix got neutered and we have all these different streaming
companies piracy is back up because we are back to the point where you have to subscribe to 5 different services just to watch 1 current movie or series per
platform.

Even then within the last 6 months I have had 2 series I wanted to watch which would be a pain in the ass to legally get ahold of. One was Da Vinci's Demons, no
Amazon platform would allow me to stream or digitally buy it in my country (small island in the EU) so to legally own it I would have to buy the DVD boxset and a
USB DVD reader, hook that up to my PC and watch it from there. And the other was HBO's Q doc, but there is no way for me to legally watch any HBO content in
my country.
Why do you think it's acceptable to have your purchased product randomly be degraded due to poorly written laws?
Wouldn't the solution be to gate access to older builds via your purchase date? Would there be any legal framework blocking such a solution?

If any company were to implement something that consumer-serving for their distribution platform, it would be Valve. So I feel like that should definitely be a thing
we as consumers drum up demand for.
> As far as I can tell record labels don't sell perpetual licenses for their music to anyone so any game with licensed music not made FOR the game is a ticking time
bomb on Steam.

They do, it’s just more expensive. That’s why shows like Scrubs had fantastic music that no longer is in the show, because they didn’t get perpetual. Nowadays with
streaming, basically all shows get perpetual licenses. But to offset the cost they’ll often go for cheaper indie or upcoming artists.

That said I don’t know if licensing cost is different for video games vs tv shows.
Best solution: make older owners of the games have DLC. Newer players who purchase afterwards don't have it.
The EULA does not surpass the law, no agreement with a company surpasses or overrides the law.
Anyone who's not vehemently against EULAs, as a concept, is begging to be exploited. It means paying full price to get nothing.

Say it directly: you buy games. You own games. Legal fictions to the contrary are nonsense and must be rejected at all levels.
Any mods for adding new music? I feel like vice city is begging for a modern synthwave station
Xbox emulation is in a far worse state, though
Doesn't Xbox BC work by downloading the game with the disc simply acting as the license?
no. I meant, pull it from the store. Not delete off your PC.

Think about it like physical media. If you bought the pre-cgi version of Star Wars on physical media, then it's yours forever. But you gotta protect that VHS tape.
Because if you lose it or whatever, Disney has no obligation to provide you with that original version (or any version, honestly.)

So if a publisher loses music rights to a song, they can pull the old version off the server, and sell their new version without the song.

If you use Steam to auto-update your media, you could lose the music. So it's up to **you** to keep backups of everything you buy.
Still has a better refund policy than origin, epic and playstation
It comes up frequently but it's always worth repeating: The Steam refund model was based on the retail model of no refunds on videogames that existed in the
retail industry for a couple of decades before Steam existed. The reason for that was because back in the day people would buy games, take them home, beat
them (or straight up copy them) and then return them the next day claiming they didn't work. Trade it for another game, rinse and repeat.

Not that you care, but the 2 hour policy is having a huge negative impact on short indie games. When you can play a game and it's under 2 hours long and then
refund it, the devs get NOTHING because of the EU policy. Or I suppose you think that's Valve's fault too.
More like Australia.
Well we are talking about things that protect them from legal action. So... its not that case.
Absolutely agreed.
Sure, but the issue is the cure is not needed a lot of the time. Rumor is heard and Reddit freaks the fuck out.
Yeah but in practice, a bunch of American consumers would have to sue Valve for access to a game that was removed from steam. Not a quick or pleasant route.
If the license terms contradicts with laws it doesn't matter if you agreed or not. You cannot sign away rights provided to you by law as far as I'm aware.
But it’s not very dev friendly to insist you cannot delete certain builds of your game if you don’t like it.
The RIAA ruined the internet from what it was in the early days
> The current fiasco with music licenses on Twitch is something that was unthinkable just a few years ago, yet here we are.

Only if you didn't think about it for like 2 seconds. Everyone with even a bit of knowledge about the music industry knew that streamers weren't really allowed to be
playing licensed music and that it was just unenforced. I'm honestly surprised it lasted as long as it did
> The current fiasco with music licenses on Twitch is something that was unthinkable just a few years ago, yet here we are.

I'm not following the Twitch scene. What's going on there?
It has nothing to do with sales. They can no longer **distribute** content they have no rights to.
Publishers probably want to continue to sell game, while not spending extra to maintain multiple builds.
Well, they could update it to do whatever they want. But that's why I say I think we should be allowed to download any build of the game up to the day we bought it.
So that if it does happen, we're entitled to the version we initially bought.
But when stuff like this happens, Valve will generally interject and offer refunds for the products (generally, it doesn't need to even be a massive change), while
charging the devs for doing so.

Yes, a developer can be a dick about stuff, but Valves contracts with developers do have the capability to deal it...
> So they can just remove everything from their game and replace it with a jpeg of some guy doing the finger? That doesn't seem fair.

Only if you don't keep your old versions yourself.

Think about it like physical media. If you bought the original version of star wars, without the new CGI shit, and it gets destroyed, do you think Disney will just give
you a copy of that old version? Of course not. And I don't think they should be obligated to.

People seem to want both worlds here - they want to be able to own their games (as opposed to rent or stream), but they also want to be able to have someone
else store that game for them, and provide every version ever made and provide instant access to all those versions at any time.

If you treat your digital games like you treat physical media, this won't be a problem. Make back ups, protect them, etc. Because someone who sells you digital
content has NO requirement to always provide to you a method of download if you lose it.
I don’t think the law is that simple. When you buy from Steam I think you’re buying a license to use the software, not the actual code along with a guarantee
publisher will never alter it.
> On the other hand people are legally entitled to the product they bought.

The law disagrees, unfortunately.

> consumers win over multi billion dollar companies any time of the day.

Try taking a multi-billion dollar company to court, and see what that gets you.

Somebody doesn't read through their EULAs
trying suing rockstar for removing a song from the radio on that basis and see how far you get
I don't think you understand. I think we should be allowed to download the version we bought. They can patch it all they want, if you bought it last week and they
patch out a feature, you should be able to download the old version.

But I don't think it's equally as good for someone to buy a fully patched game and then downgrade it, because they never bought it like that. And publishers won't
agree with that either. If someone patches out copyrighted music then it shouldn't be possible for **new** users to then just downgrade to a patch from a week ago.
Having enough money to fund a legal case doesn't mean they can "hold their own". They would just lose anyway and you'd still lose access
It's not about you at all.

If Valve are selling a game or still distributing a game that has expired music licenses, the music industry could/would come after them and win.

Valve appear to be making it easier for developers to stop distributing their old versions of games with expired music, it might even push the liability to developers
which is exactly what Valve want, minimising their exposure to litigation.
They might have had the option, but I don't believe Rockstar imagined San Andreas having a life after the console generation it was released on.
This shouldn’t be an unpopular opinion yet there’s a lot that will go to bat for rights holders who actively harm cultural development.
Affects maybe, maybe <.05% of users, if that. It sucks and the music industry is terrible with their licensing but with the current setup and US laws they can't let old
builds with unlicensed music be distributed.
So do you also complain when you can't download previous versions of an MMO? How is that different? You paid for the game and its updates, not for a specific
version.
Presumably because you own a licence to an ongoing product so publishers are allowed to update and remove content but you don't own a licence to a specific
version.
I don't?

That was sarcasm, I think they should do it but instead they will use their profits to sell us more crap instead of making our rights stronger.
This is probably the best solution, however who knows if valves backend is set up for that or if it's worth the extra headache for them
It would be nice if that were the case, but were the music industry to have their way they'd probably have gotten Rockstar to go to your houses and physically
destroy old copies of their old titles and destroy all records of old versions.

The music industry is a...very interesting rabbit hole to explore.
The solution is to stop licensing music and freeze these fucking parasite music executives out.
>Would there be any legal framework blocking such a solution?

Yes, this would still be illegal. Legally, you only have the rights to the data you already own, and simply previously having owned a version of something does not
give you unlimited rights to continue downloading it from the publisher.

Once their license has expired, they *cannot* distribute the copyrighted material, regardless of when you originally bought it.
So did the music in Scrubs get replaced or simply removed? Rewatched it recently on Disney+ and didn't really notice a difference, but maybe I've just never seen
the original version.
The problem is that you're assuming some law protects your purchase of the game.
What law?
Or just pirate the PC version with music if you're just gonna go the emulation route?
Yeah? I mean on original hardware.
Exactly. They would remove that from the store, but it would remain in your library.

The problem Valve is addressing here is publisher/developers have updated their game to remove the licensed content so they can continue to sell on Steam, but
due to Steam storing past versions, they are still effectively selling licensed content they no longer own the license to.
So if I change PC then I can't download the game again even after I've paid for it?
Epic actually has Steam beat on this one. Same general policy: two week/two hour window, but Epic [automatically issues partial refunds for customers who
purchased a title before it is discounted](https://twitter.com/jboggsie/status/1261238575359651840).

Steam's policies allow this but they require the customer to manually request a refund and then repurchase the title at the newly discounted price. If you have over
two hours of playtime it is subject to approval and not guaranteed.
> playstation

I heard Sony gives you 'one refund as a show of good faith', then fucks you over after that. This still true?
Epic has the same refund policy, Origin's is slightly better since it's 24 hours since first launch without the 2 hour maximum playtime.
1 out of 3 ain't bad, I guess.
>The Steam refund model was based on the retail model of no refunds on videogames that existed in the retail industry for a couple of decades before Steam
existed. The reason for that was because back in the day people would buy games, take them home, beat them (or straight up copy them) and then return them the
next day claiming they didn't work. Trade it for another game, rinse and repeat.

The EU's ruling helped bring Steam's refund policies in line with the existing retail consumer protections. The right to reconsider allowed customers to return
physically purchased software long before the ruling on Steam.

>Not that you care, but the 2 hour policy is having a huge negative impact on short indie games. When you can play a game and it's under 2 hours long and then
refund it, the devs get NOTHING because of the EU policy. Or I suppose you think that's Valve's fault too.

I can only speak anecdotally for my experience in the industry but this has always seemed like more of a *hypothetical* problem than a genuine issue in practice.
Customers who are looking to pinch pennies could just pirate the game without all that hassle. Customers who regret the purchase *should* request and receive a
refund. The theoretical customers who would buy a game, play it to completion, enjoy their experience, then request a refund because they're technically within the
refund window are not a significant portion of the market.
>Not that you care, but the 2 hour policy is having a huge negative impact on short indie games


Honestly I don't think 2 hours long or shorter indie games have their place on Steam in the first place, itch.io seems like a way better fit for those.
The policy has been in effect long enough that devs should be aware that they probably shouldn't be making their games less than 2 hours long, especially if they're
not good enough for players to want to keep them in their library.
And because of the public outrage companies are quick to backpedal and not implement or scrap hated features (see Xbox always online DRM, Samsung
mandatory ads eve in premium phones etc).



They're testing the waters, if few or no one reacts they're free to go ahead. Of people get upset they can simply say "it was a misstake". Pretty much like when
people say racist/offensive things on reddit, get down voted and retort with "I was just joking"
Reddit “freaks the fuck out” because every last large gaming company has gone rogue.

We only got to this point because of dainty side stepping, which is what you suggest we do instead.
When games are removed from steam they're still in your library. The only cases I can think of where they were removed from a persons library was when the
games were literally malware.
You can't, but companies sure wish people could.
It’s not very friendly dev to make changes people don’t like and quadruple down on them
God im getting flash backs to what happens with the skyrim modding scene a few months ago.

Don't know if it has changed since but nexusmods made it so you can't delete previous versions of your mods.

Mainly because many mods are required for other mods to work. And deleting old version of mods fucks up the mods list program nexus has.
they've been trying since the Limewire days. It's just that having a large coporate conglomerate to target instead of a million pirates with like $1000 each means they
can more efficiently land their blows.
You can’t play any DMCA music while streaming. So everyone has to listen to random DMCA-free stuff for music.
Streamers can no longer play music that they don't have a licence for. If they do, they risk getting banned. Since streamers have been playing music they don't have
the rights to for years, they were getting flagged for old vods. Which meant a lot of streamers mass deleted old streams to avoid bans.

Games typically pay for licences for the music they use.
No, assuming the contract is written properly it's for sales and not distribution. That's why delisted games and DLC are always redownloadable for existing owners.

GTA is the unusual case since the game is still for sale, and the platform owners give no way to differentiate based on purchase date.
They also have no right to overwrite what I already own.
They have the right to it because they sold it to us.

When an entire license is pulled from games and they're entirely delisted we can still download them.
Which is why you just allow the old customers to rollback when they want it, while new users are stuck with the new version.
And that has been the case for far longer than Steam has even existed. The whole reason software keys started was an early form of DRM to tell people that even
though they own the disc, they don't own what's on the disc. They're just allowed access to it for as long as that key works.
It will probably end in an EU court and get slammed, as usual.
Hmmm, I understand where you're coming from, but I think I still disagree in cases where it isn't required by external licensing agreements or extreme edge cases
such as a game accidentally shipping with illegal or dangerous content.

If a new player of your game wants to get into speedrunning but they can't because they bought the game *after* you patched out a bug that speedrunners rely on,
then they're SoL. I think there is a strong argument to be made that old versions should be kept available on Steam whenever it is technically feasible, for the sake
of preservation.

Unrelated, but I've always figured the music licensing problem could be solved by making it DLC. Buy a game while the licenses are still active and you get a free
entitlement to it. Then de-list the DLC (or charge extra for it) 10 years later when those licenses expire.
They would not "just lose". There's a strong argument in favour of the customer having a right to access their game in the state it was in when they purchased it.
Valve's business is always about you, because they make their money off you, not the music industry.
Right, I just hate the licensing model.

Why should Activision have to pull Transformers? Sure, don't let them make _new_ games. But ones they made while under the license they should be able to sell
forever.

This whole model is dumb, and whoever made it should be shot into the sun.
Then just allow the developers to remove those problematic builds for those specific games, which is what it sounds like Steam is doing. Doing what you and others
seem to suggest and removing the whole feature over something like this would be ridiculous. It would be like trying to prevent a forest fire that’s about to start by
just nuking the whole forest.
There have been cases where an update removes certain features or flat out breaks a game. GTA San Andreas is such a case, where an update removed a bunch
of licensed music and supposedly changed several smaller things.

I bought the game with that music included. I paid for it to be the way it is and I don't want some company suddenly taking that away because reasons. Super Hot
VR is another such case, where an update removed all instances of suicide within the game. That has been part of the game from day 1 and I want those things to
be left alone.
I mean... Why do you think it was a big deal that Blizzard was shutting down vanilla private servers?

People wanted to play vanilla. People wanted to play TBC. People want to play WotLK.

So...yeah a lot of people *do* think that.
Yeah I do. It’s also pretty insulting I can’t play events removed from the game after a certain time.

I paid for the “game” yet I’m not allowed to choose what part of it I can play? Would you be okay with Hasbro breaking into your house and messing with your
monopoly board?
But sometimes publishers don't exist anymore. And/or it's impossible to remove licensed content. I get removing music, or cars maybe, but how would you remove
all of the Marvel stuff from a Deadpool game, transformers stuff from a transformers game or tetris itself from Tetris Effect?
That's the Government's job, Valve can't do anything about that. If you want stronger rights, then you'll have to start making people vote for politicians who plan to
do that, not expect a video game store distributor to get it done for you.
> they will use their profits to sell us more crap instead of making our rights stronger.

They're a storefront, not a consumer rights firm. I don't expect everyone to be Epic, and Epic is only doing what they do because it convienently helps their long
term plans too.
Yeah, they're pretty small-scale, it'd be too much for a their hundreds of millions in profit a year.
Honestly I feel that Rockstar would love an excuse to come to my house and destroy their games so they could sell them to me yet again. Surprised they aren't
pushing for it while letting the music industry take the fall.
It feels like it's more based on making money with the music. I don't think the music industry cares about old game discs, because game companies aren't making
money off of them. In the digital realm, they still could.
> but were the music industry to have their way they'd probably have gotten Rockstar to go to your houses and physically destroy old copies of their old titles and
destroy all records of old versions.

You joke but this is very close to the mark.
Yes, I’m sure licensed music in video games is make-or-break for music execs. Where would Rihanna’s label be if it weren’t for GTA?
So Activision (who give zero shits about us) were breaking their contract with Marvel when Deadpool was delisted instead of removed from steam wholesale?

Why would they?
That doesn't make sense, if you bought a game, you haven't "owned" it, you still do. The customer's license does not expire.
The usual method is to substitute less expensive music in for the expired stuff.
And why wouldn’t it? If Ford has a license for a patent from another manufacturer, if that expires they can’t come and take my car from me or remove/change the
part of the car that relates to the patent. Why not the same for games?

The only thing that change would affect is sales of new cars.
We’re speaking in hypotheticals. The above is suggesting that should a company, more specifically the rights holder, tries to claw back something you’ve paid for,
the comment suggests that the “legality” of this would be dependent on what the EULA says.

At this point the consumer can accept that, or see what the law says. There’s two ways about this, a new law that says what you bought you own, not a “licence to
play”. Or a court reaffirms that a company can’t take away what you’ve paid for. After all, why would they be able to? Microsoft can’t come into my house and take
my Xbox because their business arrangements have changed.

Unfortunately the game would still have to be edited for sale or removed from sale for new customer, as the rights holder can take from the developer/publisher but
not the consumer. The only away around that is if the legislature or judiciary says that licence agreements have to be perpetual which while I’d love, would be
unlikely to happen.
The solution that sounds like is that people who bought the game can only rollback to the version they bought or later.

While those who bought the game with the music should be entitled to their purchase not being changed.

If I buy a house with an extension and someone comes in 2 years later and takes it away I'd be pissed
>So if I change PC then I can't download the game again

You could download the latest version from Steam.

But there is no guarantee or obligation for them to provide you with the older version of the game.

>even after I've paid for it

If you pay for something and want to keep it forever, **you need to back it up yourself.** No one is going to do it for you. I can't explain it any other way. This applies
to **anything** you buy digitally.

There is never an obligation for them to continue to let you download it over and over and over whenever you want it.



Steam could delete the old versions of the game.

The publisher, or steam, could yank the game entirely.

Steam could go out of business. (unlikely, but possible)
Sony literally removed Cyberpunk from their store because CDPR told customers to ask for refund. This is how much they don't want people to ask for refund.
Origin refund policy is only applicable on ea exclusive games
> Customers who are looking to pinch pennies could just pirate the game without all that hassle.

I think it's actually less hassle for the average person to refund than to pirate - no need to do even a tiny bit of research how to do it right or what site to use, or
worry about viruses, malware, or anti-piracy measures. Just play a game naturally and if it happens to come in under the 2 hour mark and you have no interest in
replaying anyway, get a no-questions-asked refund. It's zero effort versus small effort.
>They're testing the waters, if few or no one reacts they're free to go ahead.

This is exactly how it goes. The "overreactions" are sorely needed to stop this stuff. The lack of reaction is why we now have £70+ microtransactions for single
skins in some games.
> And because of the public outrage companies are quick to backpedal and not implement or scrap hated features (see Xbox always online DRM, Samsung
mandatory ads eve in premium phones etc).

That happens once out of every 100 freak outs on reddit. Right now you sound like one of those guys who types "we did it reddit" unironically.

>They're testing the waters, if few or no one reacts they're free to go ahead. Of people get upset they can simply say "it was a misstake". Pretty much like when
people say racist/offensive things on reddit, get down voted and retort with "I was just joking"

This is all just bullshit you made up in your head to justify your outrage when in reality there was ZERO outrage needed here. Valve wasn't really doing anything,
people just freaked out over nothing.

It was yet another reddit moment where people made a fool of themselves and here you are defending it. You guys need to relax.
*Please drink verification can*
Or you can start overreacting *after* the company confirms the change for the same effect.

But you (and many others in this thread) just want to justify themselves being mad, because they don't want to be wrong about something. All this "testing the
water" is only in your head.
Game companies will continue to do what they want because even when people complain about a feature it's usually a vocal minority. Casual players will never
boycot a company of a game they enjoy unless they literally run their favourite game into the ground - and even within the vocal minority that complain, the amount
of people that would actually cause any financial harm by boycotting a company would be a minority of that vocal minority.

This is how it is with literally everything. Humans generally do not give a shit until it's entirely too late to do anything about something.
lmao gone rogue shut the fuck up with that hyperbole.
> to make changes people don’t like and quadruple down on them

depends on the change. Game breaking exploit? Sure, maybe it frustrates speedrunners, but that's a very very minor part of the playerbase. People don't like the
story? That may be part of the point of their writing (or who knows? Maybe it just doesn't agree with their politics).

"Changes people don't like" is a pretty general topic.
To be fair, that's generally the law at large. It may differ in the USA, but here you can't even play the radio at a workplace without a certain license (or at least if it's
within listening distance to customers and counts as public broadcast). But there's no real way to get an 'internet radio license'.
And what happened in the last year specifically? Videos with non-free music being taken down if you don't have an agreement with the right-holder isn't really
anything new. Stuff like that has been going on for over a decade.
To be fair, whether or not you like it, they were never legally allowed to play that music in the first place.

The fact that the big ones were allowed to go on this long without being badly sued individually by the RIAA was the real shock.
Ah, okay. That's probably only new to Twitch, because stuff like that has been an issue on other websites for over a decade, IIRC.

And it has really only been an issue in the last year? I remember some streams I occasionally watched being temporarily silenced for music they played.
But if you can download all old builds at any time, then sales and distribution are the same thing.

If I buy the game today, and can access the build from a year ago which contains content they're not allowed to sell... Then they just sold me that content.
>No, **assuming** the contract is written properly it's for sales and not distribution

That's a lot of assumptions. Let's check Steam Subscriber Agreement Section 2.A (emphasis mine)

>Steam and your Subscription(s) require the download and installation of Content and Services onto your computer. Valve hereby grants, and you accept, a non-
exclusive license and right, to use the Content and Services for your personal, non-commercial use (except where commercial use is expressly allowed herein or in
the applicable Subscription Terms). This license ends upon termination of (a) this Agreement or (b) a Subscription that includes the license. **The Content and
Services are licensed, not sold. Your license confers no title or ownership in the Content and Services.**
> assuming the contract is written properly

lol this isn't happening, and not because incompetence. But because the music owners will go "oh okay, no music for you then."
except they do and have for the past decade? They've been through this point where you don't "own" software. You own a license to personally operate the
software pending a bunch of legalese that's for lawyers.

IANAL, but I'm guessing there's a reason no one's sued for content patches/updates these past years.
> When an entire license is pulled from games and they're entirely delisted we can still download them.

Or so you have thought.

https://happygamer.com/sin-has-just-been-removed-from-everyones-steam-library-no-longer-available-to-play-58983/
Do you have federal precedent to that effect for digital goods? Anything close?
I can’t remember where I heard/read it, but there was a quote in a book or something that was basically to the effect of “the only thing the recording industry hates
more than not making money is the thought of other people making money off of ‘their work’”.

Basically the record companies have completely convinced themselves that the only way anything is ever successful is because of its use of their music, and they’d
rather see the entire universe implode before allowing any of their music to be used without them getting paid what they feel they deserve.

In reality, having 20 year old songs in a 20 year old game is basically free advertising for their music, but they don’t see it that way. They see it as the game
developers ripping them off. Because they’re delusional assholes.

While it’s obviously not great for many of the musicians, the fact that so much of the music distribution has effectively been taken out of the hands of the recording
industry due to their unwillingness to adapt to the internet amuses me.
> Why should Activision have to pull Transformers?

that's the digital age for you. Back in the day you just stopped making games or DVD's and the license "soft expired". There's secondhand markets, but at that point
no publisher was making money on it.

having these things be bought and downloaded for decades is desirable for games, but not for music companies. For streaming services it doesn't matter much and
I'm sure they have contract terms to renew regularly and keep their shows up (netflix/hulu/paramout/etc. may even bankroll it themselves to keep shows on).
Games, not as used to it.

And to be frank, they don't tend to care as often since most non-GTA/Forza games just make their own OST to get around this. So some companies have yet to be
blindsided by when this happens.
100% agree.
And I think that the game you buy should retain the content you bought forever.
If I bought San Andreas on Steam before licenses run out, I should have all the songs on my radio as if I bought a physical version.
I fully want to selectively remove certain builds that are problematic, no reason to remove the entire feature, I was just saying this isn’t that big of a deal as barely
any users actually use it. If it was gone 99% of Steam users wouldn’t have known.
That's literally what this post is about, they're legally required to remove that version form distribution.
You paid for a digital license, nothing more.
No, valve can build tools to keep publishers and ip owners happy, and gives customers what they paid for.
Not that they couldn't do it, just is the pushback worth the dev cost
And I'm sure GTA V is only good because of Rihanna's music.
Video game companies aren't coming to your house and taking parts of your game away.

When you download a new version of a game and delete the old version you forfeit your rights to that old version. If you leased a car and then after 2 years you
traded it in and leased a different car you couldn't turn around and be like "no I want the old car back"

If you back up the old version of your game and never delete it then nobody is taking it away from you.
>And why wouldn’t it? If Ford

Nope. Your comparison is already wrong. When you buy a Ford, you sre buying an item which is your property. If you make a purchase on steam, you are merely
buying a license which allows you to download and use the software.

All of these games in your steam library? You dont own a single one. You just have a license to use them
The thing is you actually buy a physical car which you can sell, keep do what you want with, with games you don't own anything all you have is a license to play the
game for as long as the devs / publishers decide to allow you to play it for. If the devs decide to stop allowing the game to be played they can easily remove it from
your library if you have steam etc.

Games are nothing like cars as they are a license to use the item, not an owned purchase
Oh sure, I agree. That's how it should work. I don't necessarily have faith that Valve will take the time to implement two separate processes for before and after
owners, but that's how it should work. Until we have legal protections against it, they'll do whatever is easiest though.
>If I buy a house with an extension and someone comes in 2 years later and takes it away I'd be pissed

What you're talking about is more like buying a house, living in it, then deciding to destroy it, and then at some point in the future asking for someone to rebuild it for
you exactly the way it was before without the latest advancements.
>
You could download the latest version from Steam.

What if the company doesn't release a new version without the music?

That's what I'm talking about.

If companies can delete old versions from your library so you can no longer download, then they can delete the current version too.

>
The publisher, or steam, could yank the game entirely.

Except right now when this happens you can still download it if you bought it before it happens. This is a change to that policy.

It's all very well and good to say consumers should have only the barest minimum of rights and if you want to roll over and let that happen that's your pejorative. The
only reasons we have warranties is because people said hold on I want more rights than what capitalism would allow.

Why not force companies to allow you to download it over and over whenever you want?
Third-party games can offer the same refund policy, they need to opt-in though and “Great Game Guarantee” appears on the store page if they do.
Except Valve has stated that abusers of the feature will be punished. The average person isn't going to have that mindset anyways.
The sad truth. But I think complaining about it gives some relief that we at least did something more than staying mute.
I mean, yeah, rapes... but what if Diablo 4 is *good*.
These people think they're in an actual "battle" or something. Its ridiculous.
Or things like cube world where the game went from a fun game to a boring mess
Yea that’s not a thing in the US lol It’s not allowed because these people are making money off the stream whilst playing DMCA music.

Not being able to play the radio in a store without a license seems silly as fuck.
The big issue is it applying to the music in games now. Playing the top 40 while grinding dota is one thing, getting banned because you played the end credits
without muting is another.

There was a thing with Cyberpunk where they had a streamer friendly mode that didn't play DMCA music, except like everything else it didn't work on launch so
streamers still got hit while taking all the precautions they could.

The system is also completely automated, and at least on release didn't tell you what content was being claimed linked to a 3 strikes rule. This lead to most big
streamers deleting all of their archives because they otherwise risked losing their channel/livelihood.
AFAIK its also not possible to license the music for your channel, because its all automated and having permission won't stop content being flagged.

Basically the whole thing was shittily implemented and like all legal things based on baseball rules isn't likely to get better.
The rule wasn't applied until last year when the RIAA decided to go full steam ahead with claims on twitch.

leading to pretty hilarious events where everyone has to mute a game trailer because they're using licensed music.
Not on twitch… they have started banning streamers over this. This used to not be a thing with twitch.
Twitch has had an auto mute feature for vods for a while, but asides from muting that section of the vod, there were no consequences. The bans are relatively new
thing.
That's what they're talking about. If there was differentiation, you could be limited to only downloading builds released when you purchased the title, thereby
potentially allowing them to continuing serving you the content without issue.
Okay then show me a game that's been delisted *and* not available for redownloadable.

Even all Rock Band DLC that's been delisted because of expired licensing agreements is still available for redownload.
It was removed very briefly [and then replaced with an upgraded better version](https://www.pcgamer.com/nightdive-just-updated-90s-fps-sin-on-steam-and-a-full-
remaster-is-on-the-way/).

And being removed for any time at all [was an accident.](https://steamcommunity.com/app/1300/discussions/0/2823131567379358453/)

No one lost their license.
There's nothing saying "this is definitely what happened" though.

We know what happened with Deadpool the publisher lost the rights to sell that IP, people could still download it.

Activision had great lawyers and doesn't give a shit about customers. If there was a chance that Marvel would go after them the game wouldve been gone for good.
I don't know of any, but I'm not a lawyer so it doesn't mean that there isn't.

And there are a lot of modern day issues related to digital rights and online activities for which case law just doesn't exist yet. Doesn't mean that it never will. It will
have to happen gradually over the course of the next few decades.
Sounds like Year Zero from Rob Reid.
That’s fine, but even with that I disagree. I think you’re way underselling how big the modding community is when you put together *every largely modded game on
Steam* and all of them would definitely notice. Just cause they aren’t the majority doesn’t mean they aren’t big.
Sure! I understand removing it from distribution, as in, you can't buy this version anymore. However, if I have already bought that version, then I should be entitled
to keep using it. I paid for it and I'm entitled to it.
... which they are doing... with this change

Customers keep their games but publishers are allowed to delete specific builds. This was already a workaround and not officially supported and was used primarily
by enthusiasts. Historians should not depend on a storefront for preservation anyway and 90% of customers will not care
What pushback?

There was no pushback when people who owned Deadpool were still allowed to download it. Why would there be pushback over a version of a game with songs
that were already paid for?
Why would you equate "delete game from hard drive" with "trade in a car"? Trading in a car is a business transaction, you get compensated for permanently losing
possession of your car.
We aren't deleting our old versions, they're being deleted for us against our will.
The license is our property.
All you’ve given is a reason for a legislature or regulator to step in.

The simple question, “do you own your games”, if you asked the general public they’d say “yes”. What a business wants becomes irrelevant when it harms
consumers.
> If the devs decide to stop allowing the game to be played they can easily remove it from your library if you have steam etc.

I don't know that this would be "easy" for them to do. Valve would fight against it because it would hurt their brand - if people feel like games that they've bought
through Steam can be yanked, they're less likely to buy through Steam (and perhaps more likely to buy through GoG).
> If the devs decide to stop allowing the game to be played they can easily remove it from your library if you have steam etc.

Which is illegal in many countries.
>Except right now when this happens you can still download it if you bought it before it happens. This is a change to that policy.

That's not true. As the article says:

"helping partners **more easily** take down builds that need to be removed for things like copyright issues"

It has existed in the past for things like copyright issues.

>If companies can delete old versions from your library so you can no longer download, then they can delete the current version too.

I said this earlier - this is NOT deleting it from your library. This is about allowing you to download it again if you delete it. It's not about ownership but about
distribution.

>Why not force companies to allow you to download it over and over whenever you want?

Like, at gunpoint? WTF are you talking about?

They've explained why. it's a legal thing. after the contract expires for that music, they are no longer allowed to "distribute" it. It's in breach of contract and Steam or
the Publisher could be sued. its literally a legal issue.

>It's all very well and good to say consumers should have only the barest minimum of rights

I'm not endorsing it. I'm just telling you how it is. At the end of the day, if you want to keep something you own, it's UP TO YOU to back it up and keep it safe. No
company, even Valve, is going to do that for you.

I wish it was different but it's just the way it works.
It is literally a war crime to have video games be exclusive to a specific launcher on PC.
>Not being able to play the radio in a store without a license seems silly as fuck.

That is actually a thing in the US, too. It may not be enforced everywhere, but you're technically supposed to have a license to play music in your business.
> It’s not allowed because these people are making money off the stream whilst playing DMCA music

It still wouldn't be allowed if you *weren't* making money. Non-commercial use doesn't mean it's fair use
Ah okay. We've got public funding for radio, mind you.
I think we had something similar with YouTube and the GEMA, the company who manages this kind of stuff for most artists here in Germany. Since for a long time,
they couldn't find a solution, YouTube wasn't allowed to stream these videos to watchers in Germany. By now the GEMA and YouTube have come to an agreement
and YouTube is probably paying the GEMA for every song played, just like if you'd play songs at a public venue here in Germany (you usually don't need a prior
agreement, just report to GEMA which songs you played).

So seems like Twitch needs to get together with the music companies if they want people to play music those companies own. And people need to make sure they
abide by their agreement with Twitch - I haven't read that one, but most content sharing sites have a clause where you agree that you do not share content you do
not own the rights to.

Sure, stuff like that with Cyberpunk is a regrettable mistake, but shouldn't the Twitch support be lenient if that is an actual bug in the game? As long as the streamer
made every effort possible to keep non-free music out of their stream, they shouldn't be punished much.
Sony/Microsoft have different contracts because they don't let you revert game builds. That's why this isn't affecting them.
I stand corrected on this case then, thanks for posting the followup.
FWIW, I don't see why the whole games themselves have to be made unavailable for download, as you indeed have a license to download the game itself,
presumably, as long as Steam itself exists. However, that doesn't necessarily hold true for the individual content inside it.
Yes! That is exactly it! Thanks!
I guess I don't even understand when this "feature" is used. I've been modding games for quite a while, Skyrim included, and never really ran across anyone
recommending something like this. I can see how it would be useful to niche communities, and I'm 100% more sympathetic to them versus Valve or any publisher,
but I think it's fair to call this niche, even if it is important.
You haven't bough that version though - you bought a license for the game.
No, they're giving publishers the option to remove old builds for everyone, even people who bought that version
He means pushback against removing versions of the game with licensed music
https://www.experian.com/blogs/ask-experian/how-does-leasing-a-car-work/
How are they being deleted against your will?
> The simple question, “do you own your games”, if you asked the general public they’d say “yes”.

Doesn't make it the correct answer as you haven't owned games for many years, it's all been a license to use them for as long as allowed, just because people
believe one thing it doesn't automatically make it the legally correct answer
I guess you don't realise that Valve already have this built into the Steam client, it's currently used mainly for betas / EA etc but any company can revoke a license
and the game gets removed from your library when you next sign in to Steam
Microsoft and Steam definitely let you download games that were delisted. Sony won't let anyone who downloaded PT previously to redownload. So there is some
precedence.
I bought a license to the game...

I won't assume to lecture, but where are you located, that practices like these are somehow ok? Not to sound like a Kevin, but I bought a product, an item, to play
by myself, offline, at my own discretion, and I will keep, back up and re-obtain what I bought initially if I so choose. Just because an update got pushed, doesn't
mean I shouldn't be able to redownload what I initially purchased. That's how the exchange of goods and services work. A game is a good, not a service, so, with all
due respect, can it with all this "license" talk. If Rockstar, Valve or any other company doesn't like that, then take it to court and we'll see how it holds against
consumer protection agencies. It's shit like this that keeps piracy alive and well.
So valve should just not do something good for everyone because of cost.

Hundreds of millions in profit a year
I didn't even notice you said lease. Why even compare a game purchase to a car lease? A car lease is like a game rental. It's for a set period of time, you continue
to pay for as long as you want it, and when you stop paying you give it back.
Everytime a new update is pushed.
It actually does go a long way to making it the correct answer. If the overwhelming majority of people that click "Purchase" on Steam believe that they're buying a
copy of that game, then the law should reflect that when its written.

You say we don't legally own our games, but as far as I know the law is basically blind to the situation. There's a conflict of opinion right now. Game publishers
assert that we don't own the games we buy, while everyone that buys them believe that we do own them. The legislature hasn't really stepped in to deal with it.

It wouldn't be the first time that broad public understanding was codified into law. Nor would it be the first time that garbage in a EULA was dismissed as bullshit.
You are aware laws can change, especially in previously unregulated markets?
I think you misunderstand me. If Valve starts yanking retail games that people have paid for from their Steam libraries, that will hurt Valve's brand. I'm not talking
about betas / press demos / internal builds.

Of course Valve has the technical ability to yank any game from your library - they control the auth servers. My point is that I would not expect them to exercise that
power for retail releases except in extreme circumstances (e.g. known malware) because it would hurt their brand.
> Not to sound like a Kevin, but I bought a product, an item, to play by myself, offline, at my own discretion, and I will keep, back up and re-obtain what I bought
initially if I so choose

You're free to keep or backup the game files you "own". However Valve is not free to let you download that version of the game if you lost those files for whatever
reason.

I dunno how to feel about this honestly. Their type of point and click narratives would be a good fit for Netflix, but I can all too clearly see this going the way other
studios did when gobbled up by Google/Amazon
Fairly confident they will be handed the Stranger Things IP. It would be an easy fit considering the similarities between Oxenfree and Stranger Things
This initiative will be interesting to follow. I wonder who Netflix will purchase/partner with next, and in which direction(s) they’ll go with gaming. Games tend to take
longer to make than movies/television and I’m not sure Netflix has the patience for that…but otherwise, they’ve definitely got the user base to put games in front of
a LOT of people.

These next several years of gaming should be more varied and diverse than they’ve ever been - the big three console manufacturers have kind of each carved their
own models (Nintendo, kids; Sony, “premium”; Microsoft, Game Pass/play on any device), Facebook has invested heavily in VR, Apple has Apple Arcade, Amazon
has finally shipped a game that people don’t seem to hate, and Google is…doing something? In theory, competition is good for the consumer, and hopefully we’ll
have a great “generation” ahead of us.

I do think we’ll continue to see more studio/publisher acquisitions (of all sizes) and that’ll bother some people here on Reddit, but maybe the industry will be better
for it? Only time will tell.
And now I am interested in Netflix's venture into gaming. Oxenfree and Afterparty were great stories. I also wonder if this means Netflix has access to their IPs
because I think Afterparty could be a great buddy adventure movie.
This seems so strange to me, but it could work? I just can't tell if Netflix's entrance into gaming will be more like Facebook with Oculus, or if it will lose steam like
Google with Stadia. But still, the more narrative focus of their games could fit well with Netflix.
This is getting depressing. Seems every week there's an article about some neat, small studio getting swallowed by the massive corps.
Very good purchase, I'm looking forward to Netflix venturing into video games since they'll help new people into the hobby.
With how poor of a grasp Netlfix has on it's own original series' after 8 years, I really don't see how this ends in anything other than Night School getting closed after
3 years.
So we will have a literal *Netflix of Games*

In fact, if they don't have a studio with that exact game I'll riot
Hard to say, Netflix has a huge advantage in that they're already accustomed to letting creative teams handle themselves (something Google and Amazon haven't
done well). Netflix's big difference to the game space is that they rarely let things go beyond 2 seasons, but honestly it'll be refreshing to have a big player in video
games encourage new IP.

I'm somewhat optimistic about this specific acquisition for the reasons you stated, but I have other concerns with Netflix entering gaming that I won't have strong
opinions on until they get further along in this venture (what final form Netflix Gaming takes we've yet to really see).
My first thought as well.
From what I've heard, they are planning on making their games available to all their current customers for no additional charge. So there's a huge install base
already there. Where Oculus not only has to build it's user base from scratch, it's charging hundreds of dollars for the privilege of being able to pay $30-$60 for a
single game.

They might hemorrhage money and shut the program down, for sure, but with the massive userbase from the beginning, it'll be kind of similar to comparing Mixer to
Youtube gaming.

Since when does being a villain necessarily mean you're not a full person? Fictional characters of all moralities can be full people or one-dimensional.
>Karen left her family—her husband, her two sons—when they were younger. The word I wanted to use there was "abandoned," because the intensity of my
reaction to this is fueled by my own parenthood... But it's also true that my instinct to use the word "abandoned," despite Karen's sons otherwise growing up happily
with their father, is because society shuns and shames any parent who expresses second thoughts about their children after they're born, because we associate
parenthood with the erasure of the parent. Now, it's only the child that matters.

Fuck off, Patrick Klepeck. I've known and been close with people who were abandoned by their mothers as kids. The amount of long-term emotional harm
abandonment creates isn't something to downplay. Yes, once you're a parent, only the child matters.
This article is bullshit lol even in a vacuum only looking at the parents mentioned. You don't get to decide if a child's parent is the villain or not. Like even if he lives
a great life with dad, mom still left him and even if she feels some regret there's no one who can tell that child she isn't the villain if he feels that way. Even if you
have some empathy for dude who saved his own skin and let a bunch of people drown you don't have to forgive them. You can understand a situation is complex
and still think someone made the wrong choice.
“Broken parents are full people not villains” sounds like the kinda shit my dad would say to his lawyer after he stole our money, ownership over the house and
signing up for credit cards under my name.
What does "full people" even mean?
Game of the year for me. Story is a 2nd fiddle imo, this games strengths are fantastic characters writing, acting and relationships beteen them.
I really hate the Life is Strange games, the dialogue is terrible. No offence meant to anyone who likes them though.
well it depends.

some parents are not villians and just had a rough life and need more support

whereas other parents...i..e mine ARE villains lol
Because the current age of social media needs to seperate people in two camps. Saints or Hitler. Bad people are not allowed to have some good in them.
Karen is an absolute piece of shit and LiS2 gives you zero reason to sympathize with her.

Her entire reason to ditch her family was “I had more life to live” which you find out is to… live in a commune and basically get around by sleeping with random
men. That wouldn’t be an issue except for, you know, you abandoned two very young children, one of them being a tiny infant at the time

One of the few things that I actually liked about the second game is that you are given the opportunity to tell her to fuck off.

Like, neither son turned out fine, the older brother had to basically raise Daniel because dad was always at work, and the younger is blatantly traumatized and has
huge abandonment issues
Yeah turns out society shuns parental abandonment for good reason, because we have done all sorts of studies that show that it really fucks up kids.
I think that's what article and the game were trying to explore, the justification someone creates for themselves when making that choice, not if its right or wrong.
The decision to walk out on your kids is inherently a bad one, as it is in LiS2, yet as you said, it happens anyways.
But you see *he* forgave her, because he played a videogame and that's basically the same as living through it..
I'm a parent, and I think it's stupid to force parents to pretend like things are always great, and that there's no room for second thoughts or remorse.

Of course there's incredible emotional harm to abandoned children, and I would never do that myself - but it's also extremely emotionally unhealthy, in my opinion,
to make parents feel like they can't re-think things. That's equally fucked up.
y'all are ridiculous. he's not excusing it, he's just giving the game credit for not oversimplifying really complex family dynamics.
>Yes, once you're a parent, only the child matters.

If you totally forget about the parent, the parent might ignore their mental health, therefore becoming a shitty parent and then the child suffers. Parents should never
forget about themselves, but they also ought to know that they're entirely responsible for the lives of their children. With parenthood, you have to dedicate a big
chunk of your time to your children, but you shouldn't give up all of it.
first off it's called responsibility. second, we are not to post-birth abortions yet.

and yes had a good friend whose father abandoned him at a young age. lifelong emotional damage.
No kidding, this is narcissistic shit of the highest order. Glad the comments here are pillorying it.

The day you have a child, your right to seek self serving quests of self actualization changes. There may be no legal obligation to take care of them when you can
just foist them off on someone else, but you're absolutely trading the future of your child, their current happiness, AND that of the new sole caretaker for your own
personal gratification.

You don't get to "express second thoughts about your children" in a vacuum. Every decision you make is a tradeoff in which you get increased freedom and
potential self actualization and in return the other parent gets double the burden (and a consequent decrease in THEIR freedom or potential). And the child is
deprived a parent.

Articles like this are why people (rightfully) have a disdain for digital media journalism. When it stopped being a real profession and started being a make-work job
for middle class failchildren, you start to get articles like this that are just sociopaths justifying their own shittiness.
That is probably the most vile thing I've ever read in a gaming article
And yet we all know it's *dads* who leave their kids in 9/10 cases and everyone accepts it/acts apologetic.



Sorry dudes/dudettes, either all parents are parents or all get a free card. In real life shitty dads run away on a daily basis while women are forced to stay, due to
social pressure. If men and women are to be equal, then *men should get a ton of flack* just like this *fictional, made up woman gets*. Yet I've never seen it
happen, say "crazy bith" and all of reddit got your back.
Yeah, if you want broken parents as full people, then just play It Takes Two.
Because that's how you feel? You're stating opinions as facts. Others may feel differently you know
Good thing we’re not looking in a vacuum. Not all parents are leaving because they want to be evil and hurtful to their kids, if having a child literally drains them of
so much of their energy that they’re forced to leave the situation is it hypothetically fair to them to be expected to still care for that being for the rest of their lives in
misery?
I think it's a false dichotomy. Full people can still be villains. Full people means that they are realized from all angles and have depth to them. They can still make
choices that absolutely make them villains or the bad person. Anyone trying to tell you they aren't a villain because they're a person too it's making excuses for
shitty behavior.

My friends parents divorced when he was in highschool. His mom ran off to live with a younger man and be wild again. He couldn't handle that his mom wasn't
Donna Reed but had her own problems with self. Much the same existential problems he as a teenager had. To him she was this person who was just supposed to
be there and do mom things. To him, at that age, she was not a full person. But no, she struggled with mental illness and regret over her life choices. She was more
than he thought. She was an absolute bitch for leaving her family and deserves no sympathy for those choices. We all deserve some sympathy for having
problems, but how you deal with them can make you the martyr or the villain, or just in-between.
I'm sorry that happened to you, but it doesn't make your dad the villain in the sense of media having a good v bad. A terrible person? Absolutely! Still a person
though, not just a collection of negative traits to stand in opposition to a protagonist.
Yes, he is also a full person going through his own awful shit for his own awful reasons. Congratulations, you've learned the same basic empathy we teach
kindergarteners.
[removed]
Well just based off context of the title:

It seems like its referring to how many forms of media refer to broken/divorcing parents as the “Villian” or evil of the story. Most of those media pieces that follow
that Divorce=Evil scheme almost NEVER go into detail on why the divorce is happening.

When the title tells me the “Broken Parents as Full People” that lets me know that the Broken/Divorcing parents have their reasons and we will be able to see why
they are going through what they are going through.
Three-dimensional characters as opposed to villains. Evidently, people don't like that because complexity doesn't allow you to draw a clear line you can stand on
the right side of and impress the internet.
It means more than just a caricature. Is it really that hard to understand?
That they're actual characters and not video game plot devices. How is this a complicated concept?
That's the biggest problem with the article. You can't define what it means to be a complete/full person. Complex might have been a better word but it wouldn't have
saved the argument.
The facial motion capture is what makes it stand out so much from any flaw. It's amazing how far that tech has come for games the past few years.

I can't wait to replay the original since it's getting full facial mocap for the remaster as well. Unfortunately before the storm is not which is disappointing.
Yeah it's my second favourite in the franchise, just behind the original game. Alex Chen is definitely my favourite Life is Strange protagonist though.
Even Hitler had a soft spot for animal rights. I mean, doesn't balance out the millions of murders of course.. but even someone that bad had bits of good
There really isn't a shortage of Anti Heroes or Anti Villains in current media. Kinda weird to awkwardly insert your social media pet peeve into this discussion.
Honestly now it makes me wonder how the story would had turned out if the mom was in the picture in the first episode. Would there still be a confrontation? If the
whole thing happened and his mom was still there, would she had tried to tell them to stay? I feel like the whole thing started not just because of the super power's
your little brother in the game had but also because your character you control freaked out and didn't know what to do so he took his brother and ran away.
Heinous people doing heinous things just trying to latch on to the movement to stop shaming people for XYZ. Look no further than pedophiles for that be made
painfully clear.
Saying that walking out on your kids is inherently bad is like a couple that hates each other but "stays together for the kids". Nah fam, your shitty parenting isn't any
better. The real solution was to not have kids when you weren't ready, but that ship has sailed now. All that is left is just people that don't want to be where they are
and everyone pays for it. That's just so real life. Have none of you have had long time good friends that at one point confessed on something kind of fucked up?

The idea of praising complex characters is absurd. All characters should be complex by default. *People are complex by default*.
Absolutely. Parents should always have an outlet to express their troubles, regrets, etc.

I'm friends with many parents and I've listened to them over the years talk about their frustrations, and feeling like they want to give up. Sometimes even thoughts
about running away.

It's very healthy to express those feelings, and parents need to know that they aren't alone when feeling them.

But, don't abandon your damn kids.
I mean, you can't really re-think an actual human being, already born and growing. Yes, having a kid is a 16-18 years old commitment. You need to think deeply
about it before, and society shouldn't shun women who doesn't want to go through it.

But the second the baby is born, no, there is no possibility to re-think or do a 180. Because you're harming someone that had nothing to do with it and who isn't
responsible for your choices. I say it as the son of someone who was abandoned, it fucks you up.
What is there to re-think? The kid has already been born. There’s no undo button, no turning back. That’s why it’s always been imperative that people really think
hard about if they want a kid. It’s a pet you can drop off at the kennel
Re-think a living human? That already exists? Why would we ever encourage people to follow this line of thinking? Why would re-thinking the choices that made you
a parent do anything but burden you with regret or lead you to abandoning your child?
I'm a parent and I think it's stupid to force parents to pretend like things are always great and there's no room for second thoughts or remorse.

I also think if you have a kid and abandon them because you said, "Oopsie, turns out this is kinda hard!" then you fucking suck and are actually a villain. This is in a
vacuum -- obviously if you were forced to have a kid by your abusive husband and you had to escape alone, well, we can add some marks to the other column --
but if you just pop a kid out and go "wait, fuck, I like drinking on Fridays more than this" and disappear? Eat shit and die.
Its not really complex. There are reasonable things that could lead you to leaving your children. You have severe mental or drug problems that put them at risk for
example. Karen’s example in the game was she wanted to live her life and fuck around on a commune while banging every other dude she meets. Thats all fine
and good when you aren’t abandoning your young children. She is absolutely a piece of shit for that
>That quote sounds like he's kind of excusing it

Sure, if you have no reading comprehension whatsoever. Like just.... read the full quote or the headline or the article. It's not about forgiving or excusing them, just
saying that they're still people who made (and are still making) a bad choice and that choice doesn't make them not real people with other aspects of their
character.
That quote sounds like he's kind of excusing it, or, ya know, as the commenter said, downplaying it.
[removed]
You always have a choice. Some people aren't cut out to be parents, or aren't in a good place financially or otherwise to do it, and unfortunately, sometimes they
don't understand this until a child is there depending on them.

Making those people feel trapped to raise an unwanted child isn't going to help anyone. We can do better than that.
You've never seen anyone shame deadbeat dads before?
No one should downplay the amount of harm father abandonment is either. I don't believe that I've claimed to the contrary.
Don't you need friends for that?
Really? I felt like the writing was really weak in that game
The writing in that is awful and I question anyone who thinks that married couple shouldn’t have divorced already. My wife and I couldn’t believe the number of
couples praising the game and it’s depiction of their relationship
There are no facts in this conversation. It's literally all opinions. If you can provide me solid empirical evidence of what it means to be a full person I'll eat a full
person.
Yes, they created a new human being that they’re responsible for. That is a big deal. There is a reason child abandonment has been frowned up by society since
there was a society.

If they don’t want to do the rearing they damn well better at least financially support the child they decided to have.
>if having a child literally drains them of so much of their energy that they’re forced to leave the situation is it hypothetically fair to them to be expected to still care
for that being for the rest of their lives in misery?

Yes, it's fair to expect them to raise their child. I'm sorry that they're tired, all parents are.
This excuse harming a child how exactly?
> is it hypothetically fair to them to be expected to still care for that being for the rest of their lives in misery?

Yea, choices have consequences. I understand the new theme of the modern world is "no personal responsibility to anyone ever" but this is one road we are not
gonna go down because children don't deserve to bear the consequences of some shitty adults actions. You will be judged, you will be shamed, this is not
something people will come to accept, ever. Don't wanna deal with a child? Don't have sex. Literally as simple as that.
Agreed. This is kind of the theme of the game, empathy. Arguably good writing and even criticism need to employ empathy even for characters that seem
irredeemable. Like the article says, forgiveness isn't absolution.
He a villain to him, and probably rightfully so.
[removed]
[removed]
*"ah yes, le enlightened centrism"* - Probably some Redditor, I dunno
hahah, no. it's a super basic way of referring to characterization in media. It's the difference between being a character (one major trait, fits into the story, ultimately
disposable) and a person. It does not literally mean, obviously, that this is a person fully drawn out as if an actual real life living individual, but a character that gives
that impression.

I think people are being very intentionally obtuse for no good reason.
There is enough information in *the title* to parse what they mean. Where did you get confused, exactly?
If they're using the same tech/mocap quality as they did with True Colors, my excitement for the remaster just went from tepid to pumped.
>I can't wait to replay the original since it's getting full facial mocap for the remaster as well.

Oh damn, really? Somehow I missed that. I'm guessing that's why the remaster got delayed, probably.
>I can't wait to replay the original since it's getting full facial mocap for the remaster as well

I was hoping for that!

> Unfortunately before the storm is not which is disappointing.

whyyyyy

Before The Storm already uses mocap.
I havent played any other LiS before it, waiting for that remaster.
I mean, he also killed his dog before suiciding, so you know, "soft spot" for Hitler isn't really that nice anyways !
The weirdest hitler story is his friendship with a random jewish girl he meet, they would send each other letters and he would always hang out with her, they would
take pictures, etc, eventually the party leadership forced him to stop and he told them something like "every time i find joy in something you people take it away".
History is......strange.
Bruh. Comparing a mentally ill person who can’t handle parenthood and a literal pedophile is a step out of line;re-evaluate your language.
What the fuck is this comment? Wow.
I don't remember who the quote was from, but we need to remember that bad things don't happen because people are fundamentally good or fundamentally evil,
but because they are fundamentally people.

Saying "well all parents that leave their children behind suck!" is like stating that water is wet. It's correct, but does absolutely nothing to help anybody. Ignoring that
trivial statement isn't *downplaying* it, it's getting past the unnecessary observation and hopefully get to where something can be improved.
>The idea of praising complex characters is absurd

Why is it absurd to recognize a job well done? Yes characters should be complex, but that doesn't mean that they simply are. It's not presented as some epiphany
like "oh! characters should be complex!" it's recognition of the work put into rounding out these characters.
Writing complex characters is difficult, especially making ones that are consistent and believable. If it was easy it would not be praised. Good writing shouldn't be
praised because everything should be good is a very... optimistic perspective so kudos to you for that.
>The idea of praising complex characters is absurd. All characters should be complex by default. People are complex by default.

I'm not sure I agree. I think a piece of media, either it be a video game, movie, stage play, etc, that's able to show some moral complexity to its characters is
allowed to receive some recognition for it.
Hey, I agree with you that people shouldn't do that.

But the people who do it are still people, and that's all the author was saying - that LiS just went the extra mile to humanize those characters and not just have them
be the big bad event that ruined everything.
Basically. I remember in high school a supply teacher we had basically told us the right age in his mind to get married was 30. Everyone was surprised and felt that
was too late. I kind of see why now especially when kids are in the possible future.

Hell, I used to work in a warehouse as a extra hand and in shipping and there are a few guys who had kids and some were unplanned and unexpected. One guy I
know basically said how he could had maybe pursued being a comedian but because he has two kids I believe or one he got a job instantly to support those kids.
He always seemed happy and cheerful and basically had a positive outlook in life. A few others I know also basically moved here from poorer countries so their kids
can have a better future. They sacrifice a lot just for their kids. Some sure maybe weren't careful when having sex but they stepped up when the other person they
did it with said they are pregnant and focused on supporting that kid 100%.

One reason I took that job was because I wanted to know what hard work is and honestly I got more than that. I also got lessons on what it means to be an adult
and be responsible and step up when it's time to step up. That's why now when I think about kids in the future, I feel like I would really want to have one and not just
that but also be able to support that child and potentially sacrifice some of my own free time to take care of him or her.
>Karen’s example in the game was she wanted to live her life and fuck around on a commune while banging every other dude she meets.

wow definitely no problems with women buried beneath this comment
Then I'd recommend reading the rest of the article and not just this deliberately edited partial quote (the commenter here removed Patrick's perspective relative his
own feelings as a father to two children), because it almost immediately afterward mentions that neither the game nor the character excuse her
> Making those people feel trapped to raise an unwanted child isn't going to help anyone. We can do better than that.

We are doing the best we can right now, by shaming and making sure those people feel judged and pressured to stay with their children. This in turns makes it so
people actually consider the weight of their actions, like risking having a child. They understand they can't just abandon their responsibilities.

I don't understand, what is doing better in your opinion? Excusing deadbeat parents? We can extend an empathetic eye as much as we'd like, but at the end of the
day it literally does not matter what their reasons or feelings are. The child's feelings are what matters, and that will always take precedence.
Yeah but only one person needs to buy it.

They can then invite another friend to play the other character for free.
There's maybe an hour where they actually start talking about real problems in a real way

But it's undermined almost completely by the fact that it's never followed up on or dealt with in any way.
It’s gamer deep, which is a wading pool.
If you had a kid, wouldn’t you be scared to get a divorce?

It can be tough on young kids and it’s understandable to me that they hadn’t divorced earlier.
The parents in that game are absolutely horrible people, especially towards their daughter. Selfish to an exteme, the both of them.

It's so sad that the gameplay is great, when the story presents us with these completely unsalvageable garbage people we're supposed to believe can make it
work. They shouldn't, they need to seperate. The differences the story presents us with are not of two people who've just moved apart a bit, they don't like each
other and I will not believe they ever really did.
Presenting something as a full person means you've given them motivations beyond a one note description. Cruella de Ville is not a full person. She's a caricature
villain that turns Dalmatians into fur coats.

You seem to be bringing some baggage to this conversation that is coloring your view of it.
Who's excusing it?
I’m not saying to not call out parents for abandoning their kids. Just that there’s something to be said about the idea of exploring the other side, the reasons behind
why parents have made those decisions, and more importantly, to remember they are also human beings and not robots and that there is another POV for us to
analyze.

And also, what a dumb last sentence, have sex, just use contraceptives or last ditch effort if need be, abort.
Sure, if you apply the framework of storytelling to reality, whereas the linked article is doing the inverse.

This article is pretty basic media criticism and folks are treating it like it's absolution of shitty parents. just really weird reactions.

[removed]
They weren’t confused, they just saw the opportunity to twist the title into something nefarious to be mad.
>Where did you get confused, exactly?

They couldn't find the ethics in this piece of video game journalism.
Probably safe to say the trailer is early footage given the 5 month delay but overall I think it looks really good, some scenes are a bit iffy but hopefully they weren't
finished.

Trailer: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TI3AMPKEPmQ
Comparison: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uysM8axmfNU

Some scenes, especially Max/Chloe in the pool you see a huge improvement but others not so much and some look really different possibly because lighting wasn't
finished or just engine changes. There was some negative response from the trailer with certain scenes looking so different color wise so I'm hoping that's where
the delay is going, fine tuning the animations and lighting.
Yup. Probably part of it, a ton of work to get all of the new animations in. They were pretty clear though that Covid was the big thing that just pushed things back
and instead of crunching to get the remasters out in september they just decided to delay them.

Honestly with how good True Colors is, and the Steph DLC coming out in a couple days I'm okay with that. Kinda sucks it's February 1st instead of like nov/dec 1st
but no crunch is good.
Don’t mean to defend Hitler here, but isn’t that more humane than letting it starve in the bunker with them or get killed by allied troops when they breach it?
He figured it was euthanasia because he believed the Soviets ate dogs.
Pedophilia is mental illness
The character is not mentally ill, do not use that excuse.
Nah, not really
Eh, I don't take it back, and I wasn't comparing them.
> Ignoring that trivial statement isn't downplaying it, it's getting past the unnecessary observation and hopefully get to where something can be improved.

In this case the conversation doesn't make sense because you're implying there is something another party can do to improve the situation, when ultimately the only
person that can improve the situation is the deadbeat parent.

This is their responsibility alone. That's really the end of the conversation. You're talking about this observation as if there's anything else to discuss when even you
are just talking about some nebulous idea of improvement instead of anything concrete.

There's nothing to discuss. The conversation ends at the obvious because anything else is just a distraction from the only thing that matters, that the parent actually
take responsibility for what they need to do. Child > Parent, in every case.
??? It would be absolutely just as shitty if the genders were switched
asking people to read the article on Reddit is absolutely an exercise in frustration

200% guarantee you, next time a life is strange thread pops up, expect the top comment to be some mangled half remembered sentiment from this thread
Jesus Christ imagine having to live with your mother and she fucking hates you and stays with you simply because of social pressure. Because if she leaves no one
will bang her. What the fuck man? How is that any better?
I think our buddy's concern is not about money :p
Don't you need friends for that?
How did this game compare to A Way Out? I played it with my friend while my wife watched most of the time. My wife was in tears during the “Real ending” (You
know which one I’m talking about).

Does the story on It Takes Two live up to the awesomeness of A Way Out?
Having two divorced parents who love you is much much much better than having two married parents that hate each other.
My parents are divorced and I had an abusive father growing up. I’m very well experienced with the subject.

Regardless, the way the couple is written is horrible and the two are terrible characters due to the bad writing. You can have a flawed couple with issues to work
through that aren’t insufferable and horrible to listen to the entire time. That grow and evolve in a way that makes you want to see them work out their differences.
The way they act and respond in the game practically made me hate them. I don’t want a game where they get divorced, they can get back together for their kid,
but maybe actually write them in a way that doesn’t make me fucking loathe them as people
My parents dragged me and my brother through a dysfunctional childhood rather than just splitting up. My mom thought I was going to be mad at her for divorcing
my dad when I was like 24 and I told her it's the best news she's ever given me. My only wish was that they'd have done it sooner.

Society needs to get over divorce as taboo.
> The parents in that game are absolutely horrible people, especially towards their daughter.

The mission to make their daughter cry made me feel really uncomfortable...
I think your backhanded insinuation at the end of your comment is unnecessary and honestly quite rude
>I’m not saying to not call out parents for abandoning their kids.

You asked if it's fair to expect people to raise children they've reared. In every case which they are able to physically then yes, they should.

> And also, what a dumb last sentence, have sex, just use contraceptives or last ditch effort if need be, abort.

Sure but those all bring the risk of a child, so if you don't want to deal with one don't risk it. The dumb thing is expecting people to care about your complaining when
you entered into the situation with the full knowledge of the consequences.

As for that last part, again you could just not have sex. That's my whole point about personal responsibility, you think some poor unborn human should deal with the
consequences of what you've done. Because you wanted to cum. You wanna talk about dumb, how fucking dumb is that?
It's been 7 years
Absolutely - the less crunch the better. The delay makes a lot more sense now.
I'd argue that giving it to the custody of someone else before going to the bunker, or just letting him to be found by the allied troops would have been more humane,
since it would have allowed him a chance to survive, instead of certain death !
TIL child rapists are as bad as my drunk dad missing birthdays.
If your takeaway from LiS2 was honestly "left her kids to bang every dude she meets," you either didn't play LiS2, hate women, or both.
>Jesus Christ imagine having to live with your mother and she fucking hates you and stays with you simply because of social pressure.

If you hate your child because you have to raise them then you are a bad person and will be judged accordingly. The point isn't you stay and be bitter, the point is
you stay and do the work to not be bitter because that is *your fucking responsiblity*. If you don't wanna do that, cool, you're a piece of shit and no amount of
rationalizing will make it okay. Parents always have that choice but the rest of us also have a choice in passing judgement. We can only affect other's action to a
point. We cannot force someone to raise a child. We can, however, create an environment where abandoning children is disincentivized through shaming and
judgement. That doesn't mean people should stay with children and make their lives awful by being awful people, it in fact means the opposite.

If you can't do the work then you're worth nothing to people, because if you couldn't be there for a human that NEEDED you, why would you be there for anyone
ever? Why would anyone ever trust you? You want to extend empathy to everyone but I'm sorry, there is a line and this is it.
In my opinion it was better.

The characters are really compelling and the ending is a satisfying payoff. There are also a lot more gameplay elements than in A Way Out, like platforming and
more complex puzzles.
It takes two is one of the best puzzle platformers ever made IMO and it's not as good for co op as portal 2 but it's maybe the next best thing

The story is kind of trash though
Of course, but it's also not entirely unrealistic to have two parents that clearly shouldn't be together but are. That's the 90s in a nutshell.
I think you're the only one claiming that.
That wasn’t my takeaway but thats about what she did. Her gender has 0 to do with this. As a parent you have a responsibility and a duty to your children. Wanting
to “not being done living” is bullshit and disgusting. It sucks that you can’t do what you want, but you have somethig more important than life experiences
What if having the child and being forced to raise them leads to the parent’s suicide? Is that ultimately a good thing because they made a mistake?
While I disagree with equating pedophilia to neglectful parents, we are beginning to study the [correlation between malformed brain structures and pedophilia]
(https://www.researchgate.net/publication/8422551_Pedophilia_Neuropsychological_evidence_encouraging_a_brain_network_perspective), on top of divergent
nuerological structures. Which, should go without saying, doesn't excuse the harming of children, but further studying pedophile's brains may help to prevent further
harm in the future.
Then why even mention pedophilia in context of abandoning parents? Sure the Venn diagram has some overlap but not enough to not mention some other metal
hoop like parents who justify pushing their personal interests on the kid. Timmy’s fear of disappointment is a little more in the ball park of Johnny’s fear of
abandonment. Lisa’s fear of sexual assault might require a bit more therapy and support.
Traumatizing your children for their entire life by killing yourself because you can't be arsed to raise the living being you've chose to have makes you a bad person,
yes. Killing yourself and letting someone that is innocent and never asked for any of it to live with it and carry such an awful bagage is a bad thing. Having the last
thing of your life be fucking up your kid for the rest of his life is indeed not good.
Why would it be a good thing? Who made that claim? If you find yourself unequipped to raise a child, after taking actions that you knew would have those
consequences, and you KILL YOURSELF to avoid the responsibility then maybe the reality is that you weren't cut out to be a human in the first place. Being alive
and being human entails certain things, the propagation of our species and the responsibilities you have to others is one of them. You can't skirt your
responsibilities just cause you feel bad.

Again, I understand you want to extend empathy to others but there is a limit. If the president of the United States got us into a war, then committed suicide leaving
the rest of us to deal with HIS mess, he would rightfully be considered a coward. Why would the same not apply here? It's a human disregarding their
responsibilities, why would that not be criticized? Because some people can't handle it? The choice was theirs to put themselves into that situation, it was avoidable
from the beginning.
If you reread my comment I literally never even mention people abandoning their kids. I was commenting on a growing trend of people trying to latch on the growing
culture of "don't shame me", of which pedophilia has increasingly become a part of, and is the most shocking.
Okay, what was this thread about, and the comment you originally replied to about? The over arching theme is parental abandonment.

Thanks for this, helped me get started this week.
Looks like a good start. Good effort!




What are your plans to differentiate this sub from other fitness based ones?

In particular r/fitness has a big bias towards lifting and gym work, which is kind of what this sub is about too.
r/Fitness also has a fantastic [wiki](https://thefitness.wiki) that is constantly being added to.
 Ever wanted to record your weird and unorthodox lifts? You can on Wednesdays just make sure to tag it and have fun. (lifts posted on any other day will be deleted
by mods)

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

  Disclaimer: do not attempt these lifts as a newbie or unsupervised we at [r/GYM](https://www.reddit.com/r/GYM) do not take any responsibility if something were
to happen.

Way to go! Those 45’s are an accomplishment!
Looked easy!!! Great job!
Hell yeah, keep it up!
Great job! Also nice shorts lol
Good job! Congrats
Nice work!
AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME
Fantastic milestone!
Thank you
Thanks I think they are from Walmart
Thank you!

I’d keep trying to put on mass if I were you and then cut later down the line. I’d switch to a strength program with a progressive overload or at least add a
progressive overload strength component to your current PPL program. Great progress so far though!
Damn bro you massive change, keep it up
Keep doing what you’re doing bro.
Definitely put on some more muscle for now, and maybe start a cut for summer later on.
Cheers bro appreciate it yeah I were thinking about sticking too PPL but when I get motivation fully back going to do the first 3 sessions strength then the 2nd 3
hypertrophy as currently I’m going about 3-4 times a week rather than 6 like I used too , another question my current two ranges well it’s 6-8 normally sometimes 6-
12 depending on the exercise which I guess builds strength too but is it still worthwhile too do 3 strength sessions
Strength and hypertrophy aren’t every fully separated. You can emphasize one or the other but never really separate the two. You’ll still get some hypertrophy with
a strength focused program and still make strength gains with a hypertrophy focused program. There’s no reason you couldn’t do both at the same time though

If you are only able to train 3-4 times/ week then I would switch to a strength focused program. It’ll be the most bang for your buck. I would run PPL as a 4 day
program at the minimum. 3 days a week defeats the purpose of that kind of split Bc the whole benefit of it is frequency. If you’re hell bent on PPL then id run it as a
4 day program like this

Pull- DL as strength focus (linear progression) + pull hypertrophy

Push- Bench or OHP as strength focus (linear progression) + pull accessories hypertrophy

Legs - squat as strength focus (linear progression) + leg accessories hypertrophy

Rest day

Full body - do the main lifts again maybe in 3x5

Rest day x 2

And do this for 6-10 weeks. 3 weeks is too short of a cycle
Yeah I get you can only emphasise one or the other but either are still a byproduct of the other but yeah I can normally train 6x a week motivation has been awful
recently though and plus exams but yeah if I end up not being to return to 6 days a week I will switch to that split cheers for the help

Dat was smoove
These tik tok challenges are getting weird.

Nice job bro. It’s bulking season, time to put on some mass
Hey dude you kind of look like Deacon St.John from the game days gone hahaa especially in the second pic with the reverse hat

My quads starting burning just watching this. Good shit
Nice work!
Haha it was rough for sure!
Thanks!
Don’t forget about legs and delts. But you getting big homie
Very good progress at 4 months. At 12 months, you will be swole.
Lu raises will go a very long way
Thanks, you’re right my delts are lacking, im currently working on them
Thats the plan, Only thing im worried about is my bad chest insertions
Well don’t be discouraged they are so hard to build
I don't see anything wrong. With your chest.
https://imgur.com/a/XOwcUAN here’s a better angle, not the best not the worst
I think that is a nonissue. Doesn't distract from your look at all.
Thank you :)

You still look pretty lean. I’d say continue eating in a slight surplus and adding more muscle on. It all depends on your goals though. If you want strength, eat more.
If you want to be shredded, eat less. Good progress so far though!
Good progress.
Weight difference between the two pics?
Thank you so much! Appreciate the feedback :D
Thank you!!
113 in the first and 118 in the second! I’m 5’4

Nice dick bro
Solid arch, good pauses, leg drive… good set!
Bro. Go easy on the grey joggers.
Good job and with a hardie!
Nice cock
Really clean reps!
Honestly nice work. Form looks awesome! Only advice I’d give you is at the top your lockout looks kinda hard. FOR ME, this causes my elbow to flair up and puts
extra joint stress. If it doesn’t bother you it’s up to you but in the long run a softer lockout might be better. Cheers man keep after it
Way to grind out that last rep!
The amount of people giving advice on his bench press without knowing anything about it is shocking. Keep up the good work!
Vienna sausage!!
Casting an epic hog shadow there bud!
But can you do it with a flat back and your penis not on show?
Don't go hard the first time you come back from an injury. Take care of your injuries man, let your ego be.
I spy with my little eye a bulge lol
If its your first time back from injury, consider light weight and just work on reps, slowly increase once the body completely heal because the way you're doing it will
probably lead to injury again...maybe idk just thinking.
Nice bulge
Why are those safety spotters so short?
My dude packing
Can I ask why is his ribs so high? Is that bad form?
I wanna touch the bulge
Keep your ass on the bench. Driving with your legs is taking load off chest. Lower the weighf if its too much
sick arch meng
Good fucking set dude!
Nice effort on the last rep! Happy to see you don’t have clamps on the bar when you have no spotter!
What injury did you recover from?
nice lifting
Glad to hear your injuries didn’t slow you down! How did you fracture your heel?
[deleted]
[deleted]
[this!](https://images.app.goo.gl/giT89wsHFZf7iowN9)
Why do so many people cheat, get your damn back against the bench. You are not as strong as you think you are.
He said he went hard on this set. ​♂️
Glad I’m not the only one who noticed that
You’re gay
That’s part of the male anatomy, and he is a guy. Weirdo
Nice cock!
No complaints from me, keep it up OP!
The dong on the guy
These dudes never heard of leg drive and setting up an arch lmao.
Not complaining
Came here to say this.
Bench press is so superficial, especially with arched back you end up with unnecessary muscle that impede ur movement. If you’re just after aesthetics it’s fine
though.
What’s wrong with his back?
I got the rack during the pandemic, its actually a squat rack lolol
Lockdown from early 2020 i mean
My ribcage is kinda one of my best points. I can hit a pretty mean side chest, dumbbell pullovers after a nice long run helps expand it
It’s good form! Bench is one of the few lifts you actually want to create an arch in your back. It’s not 100% necessary, but it helps lift more weight.
His ribs are still swollen due to his injury.
Outta pocket
No. Fucking no.


Leg drive creates a tight upper back position, which in turn creates a stiffer torso that allows you to lift more weight with good form.


Leg drive does not move the bar. There is no chain of muscles that will move the bar from your cheat using your legs.
the only thing i agree with is the ass on the bench part but it looks like homie kept his ass down so go outside and lift some rocks
>Keep your ass on the bench.

It looks like it's staying on the bench, his hips are probably just rising a bit as he pushes with his legs.

>Driving with your legs is taking load off chest.

How?

>Lower the weighf if its too much

He looks like he's handling it fine.
Tell me you never benched before without saying it
I was able to bench more before I got hurt , and leg drive is necessary for a bigger bench. I care more about going back up to what I was able to do slowly rather
than building muscle atm. Also my butt was on the bench idk about the last rep tbh but I make sure my butt doesn't come off otherwise you leak power of course
Hmm but now that you mention it... i think i might have lost some strength from my lower body probably from not working out my legs for 3 weeks. I should work on
that thanks for pointing that out
Ok ok guys. I hate to say it but i have pretty big glutes. (And I don't like it tbh). When i flex my legs and glutes they tend to shoot my hips up a bit. But I've seen elite
lifters use this same form. here's me using the exact same form with heavier weight. You guys tell me if my butt comes off.
https://www.reddit.com/user/Thundderpec/comments/px17ct/225lbs_paused_before_foot_injury_september_4th/?
utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf again thanks though, I'll work more on tightening my lower body. Paused reps are actually harder to
cheat on
Fractured my heel and a metatarsal bone. I couldn't plant my feet for the bench so I just sticked to a z press/weighted dips until I got comfortable enough to bench
again (its been a really long month) thx for askin
Playing sports, landed all bad with a sprain too
Tell me you know nothing about benching without actually telling me you know nothing about benching.
Imagine giving false bench information like it's going to make someone better.
https://www.reddit.com/r/Showerthoughts/comments/pcmf9v/we_have_people_running_around_with_pocketsized/hak796s/?
utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf&context=3


Are you a physical therapist or a mineralogist


I’m doubting both.
>
>That’s PT as in Physical Therapist.
>
>I deal with this behavior a lot in my practice and Im not entirely sure why most lifters are so adamant on bad form.
>
>Read the comment thread. A small arch is healthy, an excessive one is not. Upvote, downvote, doesn’t matter. For those willing to listen, you are protecting
yourself, for those who want to continue practice bad form, I encourage you to be careful.

How is this arch excessive?
This is false! Just goes to show just because your a PT doesn’t mean you know anything
Get the fk out of here with your missinformation and get back to study if you ever have done it in your life.
Like, a self proclaimed PT right? You just play one on reddit? You didn't pay for college for this information did you? You don't charge customers for giving them this
information right?
> I‘m a PT

No you’re not.
I thought you meant PT as in Putrid Twat
Fuck off, you lying shitstain.
> excessive [arch]

LMAOO. Bro go back to working on your geophysics degree and get off whatever you’re smoking right now. Or maybe share, because it must be some good stuff.

No one believes you, and no one wants your “advice.”
Not sure if serious...
[deleted]
I deal with lower back injuries near daily. This is called hyperextension of the spine and QLs. Your back is meant to be straight with a subtle curvature at the
bottom. Doing this leads to excessive strain on the lower back and hips. In the worse case, a hernia through the abdomen wall is possible. However, more common
are nerve impingement and nerve compression based injuries.
And completely fuck your shoulders? Your back is supposed to have a slight arch
You're not as smart as you think you are. Shut the fuck up.
Hey guy, do you even bench?
Oh believe me i don't even know my real 1rm , i dont have a real understanding of just how much i can actually lift . I usually just do sets of 6-7
Hey man, you obviously don't have much experience benching so please don't be a dick and try to give shitty advice.
A wild 50kg bencher appears. It uses "arching is cheating". It's highly stupid.
What’s gay about admiring another man’s cock?
It's okay to be gay
Thanks, I grew it myself
Yes keep it UP op!
We’ve heard of it. Just think it’s silly.
Go look at the comments sayin i did them wrong
All muscle is unnecessary. I could just live like the scooter-bound people from Wall-E, but I work out because I’m superficial.
That makes even less sense. If your squatting these spotters won't catch the wait for you unless you are extremely close to it.
I mean if it’s good form great but I cringe looking like the ribs will just pop out the spine like sticky Lego bricks
Seems a bit cheating. I’m a bit of a noob but if it’s for arms and chest it looks like you are locking your back muscles to help you out right? Also why when I did it
does my right shoulder weaken as if there’s nothing left but my left arm can power through? I also lean one side, is this because one side is stronger or more
dominant and therefore training equally means I’m just as dominant? Or is it die to the dominant side pushing better giving more weight to the right?
Yes yes my ribs were hurting oh so bad, but I still pushed on! That is true perseverance, fight the pain and return with might not just physically but mentally
What's happening is that it looks like your butt is on the bench as you collapse down on the eccentric (which \*really\* should be more controlled btw), but then you
lift it up as you push. It may be sub-conscious, especially as you're obviously pushing hard on this set. So just keep it in mind and try to focus on keeping it planted
on the bench. It will mean you can only handle a lower weight, but you will work out your chest more effectively which means you will be able to do bigger weights
sooner.

Basically ignore Ego-Lifts and instead just focus on the long game. Otherwise you will hamper your development and potentially cause yourself an injury.
Your ass is raising up.
[deleted]
What sport do you play?! Sounds rough…
Stoner massage therapist working on his geophysics degree who thinks he's a PT who thinks he knows shit about benching.
/u/seasickelijah nothing to say about this?
Hahaha caught in a lie
Sorry, I’ve been at work.

Yes, I’m Im my 40s and yes I’ve worked in multiple fields, including mineralogy. I was a Massage Therapist back in the day and before that I worked road
construction.
Watch the video. Watch as he settles his weight into the bench and just before his first lift, he arches. Having big glutes does not mimic that motion or form.
My experiences with the claims of (alleged) PTs on Reddit suggests that they don't know anything *because* they are PTs. I don't know what they are being taught
but whatever it is it ain't how to lift good and do other things strong too.
It was nice of them to at least warn us about the misinformation they were posting beforehand
An arch is fine for bench, but Im saying he’s got to much of an arch. View my response above.
What exactly does pretending to be a health professional do for you? Do you wack off to this later?
You were right. This *is* lots of misinformation.
Fucking lol. You've got to be trolling.
“slight”
For real. I never had an injury and I actually used to bench more than i can squat(prob def rn too) if you feel stronger without an arch then dont arch but you're not
about to tell me I'm not benching correctly because you actually need a strong back on the bench. Thats why the weights are making noise at the top btw not cause
im not controlling it and letting it fall but because im actually using my back AND my chest at that point of the lift. Pay better attention to it
The ‘gay’ part is admiring his cock.
The real question is, what is **wrong** about admiring another’s man’a cock?
That's pretty dumb
Fuckin retarded is what it is!
I dont really use them i have adjustable dip bars for that (and i rarely fail a lift anyway) i have them on for bench cause it gives an ease of mind, its not the fanciest
rack but it gets my work done
Yes, you just have to stay closer. Source: have this rack in my home gym.

Part of the reason, IMO, they do this is that these racks aren’t bolted into the ground and aren’t that heavy. If the arms were super long and you failed a set. The
weight on the end of a longer arm would create more ‘leverage’ and could topple the whole piece over.
Everyones got different form. Same goes for squat, some people go ass to grass some go parallel. Some people sumo deadlift some people just stick to
conventional. Bench is the same thing however having a larger ribcage is advantageous (larger rib+chest=less amount of bar path) however I'm not benching with a
ridiculous arch like some are saying because if i was the bar would only travel like 1 inch like some powerlifters I've seen bench. Im actually driving my back into
the bench with my arch. I've taken notes from guys who have benched some heavy poundages (and guys on this thread too)
It's not cheating. Srs.
To answer your question about arched back and scapular retraction, it is all part of the lift, it is designed to keep your shoulders safe by following the natural arch of
your spine, this prevents the shoulders from rotating forward, also, you want to retract your scapular to further improve shoulder stability.
In powerlifting this is exaggerated to have a shorter range of motion.
That's right bro, perseverance is what separates weak minds from minds. I'm proud of you brother. Continue to inspire, but most of all stay fly!
I'm 99 percent sure these reps are efficient. Otherwise i wouldn't be pausing them/exploding from the bottom. Im just gonna leave this here
https://www.reddit.com/user/Thundderpec/comments/px2kct/200lbs_reckless_bench_two_days_after_foot_fracture/?
utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf its up to you guys if you want to believe me or not but in that clip I'm literally using 5 pounds less
than what I'm using here. Going lighter would be a waste of time
How exactly is he not working his chest just because his hips are rising a little?
Fair enough, I'll get a better angle next time. Guess i wont count these reps either, I'll repost once i polish my form up soon
>You're honestly way better off working with a weight you can handle and building up slowly. The bench press is supposed to be working your arms and chest, not
your legs.

It's not working his legs. Srs.

>You're doing yourself a disservice, and setting yourself up for a much worse injury down the road by arching your back and using your legs so much.

Bullshit.


>You're currently using a weight where you can get away with cheating, but once you start hitting really heavy weight 300+ that cheating will bite you in the ass and
hinder real growth and development. Slower gains are real gains and lasting gains.

How is he cheating?
To be fair, I’m a PT myself and think most PTs don’t know shit about benching anyways.
if you're in your 40s why do you have a post from a month ago saying your 28th birthday is just around the corner?

Lol, pure buffoonery

https://www.reddit.com/r/leaves/comments/p9ltgx/day_4_need_advice
>I’m in my 40s

About a month ago your 28th birthday was just around the corner lol

You’re a very bad liar
So you were never a physical therapist
How little do people in your life think of you that you've gotta go on the internet and make up bullshit just to get the attention of strangers?
>I’ve been at work.

This has me curious. What do you *actually* do for work? I'm guessing some dead-end job that you're embarrassed about, otherwise there wouldn't be anything to
lie about. But like, why make your lies so lame and unimpressive?

What kind of horrific quality of life would necessitate your online escape fantasy being a 40 year old PT?!
What the fuck have his glutes got to do with his arch?

How is his arch excessive? What makes it excessive?
I have an athletic trainer at the school that I coach at the helps me out with aches and pains every now and then. I also have a sports doctor that I visit once a
month... well mostly because they give a really good massage for the price of my copay.

It's funny how neither of those people ever have the same advice as those who claim to be PT's on reddit.
Hahahah this is so true
How would you know this person's abilities of arching? How do you know this is too much for their body? Have you worked with this person before to know that this
is beyond their capabilities?
Still not sure if serious...
Not pretending, just old and many changes in careers.
I am serious, but I’m also use to dealing with people who don’t want to believe what I have to tell them.

It’s unavoidable fact that in the PT world, our most common complaints come from lifters, both new and experienced. There’s a lot of misinformation out there when
it comes to many different lifts, the extreme arching of the lower back during a press is just one.

It’s certainly not the worse though. There are some techniques and lifts that were relics in 80s that are still done today that are capable of causing extreme trauma
to the body.
More arch = safer shoulders with no additional risk to any other body part. Seems like a no brainer to me!
Hush now
Explain?
Everyone is a man and nobody is bisexual, no I will not be talking questions.
Have you tried being less retarded then?
I get it. It's just that I don't understand why they didn't make them a tiny bit longer.
So good form looks different for everyone. Ok. But surely the deeper I squat, the lower I drop the bar and recover, the wider my fly curls are, this surely means more
tears are happening so therefore stronger despite a little longer recovery time right? Wont going that but further help you, or does that hold you back?
Can you explain? I usually do dumbbells but I understand if you want any proper gains you must go to the bar but last time I tried I ran into a few problems of my
own
So everyone says this way is practically better, safer, and more controlled. I’ll try this and see if my fears around it are eliminated
What are arm minds?
It's not that it's not working the chest, but it's taking the load of it and instead the power is coming from his hips and legs. It means that the load and tension on the
chest is reduced, which means less gains. Yes, it means you can do a heavier weight which, from the lack of control on his eccentric portion, it seems he would be
otherwise unable to do. However, it also means he isn't stressing the upper body as much and thus it won't grow as efficiently. Also there's potential for putting a
bad amount of strain on the lower back which could lead to injury.

Of course, that isn't to say you don't see people using their hips to drive the last reps if they're going to exhaustion, but it really shouldn't be done for all of them.
Leave that lad be! So sayeth the Queen of England, although I often masquerade on Reddit as a thirty-something-year-old American man-child.
As a libel prosecutor from the state that you live in I'm going to have to archive this comment for when we charge you.

Also, as the warden of that state's prison system I'm going to enjoy locking you up for spreading these lies.

As a journalist with an ethics PhD, it just makes me so angry when people are willing to bend the truth just to try to prove a point.
I am one now.
Seriously. When PTs get burnt out we tend to have escape fantasies about being programmers or software devs, not sure who’s out here fantasizing about having
six figure debt and a five figure income in their 40s.
He’s not going to get much hypertrophy out of double lies at 50% effort.
Look up a video of a straight back, then watch the video.

I get the feeling you are just trolling now if you can’t see it.
/u/the_fatalist how long has this thing been following you around for?
I knew this was coming. Yes, every body is different and genetics certainly play a part. You can lift with bad form and avoid injury if you have the right genes.

It’s not a matter of whether he can arch his back deeply or not, there is something called ROM and not every joint is meant to move fully in it, and that is the case
for the spine. Refer to my previous post about avoiding injuries such as nerve compression.
> Not pretending, just old and many changes in careers.

It’s worth pointing this out again: [a month ago you were about to turn 28](https://reddit.com/r/leaves/comments/p9ltgx/day_4_need_advice/). Which is more than a
decade off your other claim that you’re in your 40s.
Are you in your 40s or 28? Jackass.
>It’s unavoidable fact that in the PT world, our most common complaints come from lifters, both new and experienced.

I've been in and out of physical therapy over the past 5-10 years and find this really interesting. The overwhelming majority of people I saw in these practices, and
I'm talking 95%, were either older or injured on the job. The other 5% were there because of running or sport injuries, and the sports were predominantly tennis and
golf.

Do you specialize in some sort of sports therapy? Is there anything about your background that would cause you to encounter so many lifters? I'm genuinely curious
as I have never run into another one in all my care.
>I am serious, but I’m also use to dealing with people who don’t want to believe what I have to tell them.

Oh dear...

>It’s unavoidable fact that in the PT world, our most common complaints come from lifters, both new and experienced. There’s a lot of misinformation out there
when it comes to many different lifts, the extreme arching of the lower back during a press is just one.

Oh deary, deary me. You really do sound like you don't know what you're talking about.
Are you saying the majority of your clients are lifters or the majority of pushback you get is from lifters? I’m not sure what you mean by complaints here.
Listen we already know you're lying about a being a PT thanks to your post history. But I'd love to see you dig yourself a bigger hole. [Care to critique this video that
includes a DPT saying you're full of shit?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=enRx1X7dQRI)
There is absolutely zero chance that your clinic’s primary demographic is lifters, or that you are a physical therapist. I’m a real PT, so go ahead and walk me through
a detailed biomechanical explanation of your reasoning here. Please take care to cite specific references with direct quotations from the relevant literature, which
I’m sure you have plenty of.
Why does that need an explanation?
I do bench properly so I'm a genius compared to you
Yeah its kinda lame i used to not even have them on at all when I didn't know how to aim the bar path
It can help you depending on your goal. Lifting with good form is not like dancing with good form. its more of a choose which style that suits your specific goals. If
you want muscle then it would make more sense to do more range of motion/time under tension. I'm training for more explosiveness and speed at the moment,
because i can lift the weight but how good can I lift the weight? I want my reps to look strong and efficient right now. thats my goal. I treat the bench as a lift, not an
exercise
Arching your back helps you increase stability on the bench, produce more power and sets your shoulders in a safer position for benching.
How is it taking the load off his chest when it allows him to lift more weight by increasing intramuscular tension?

And how exactly is it stressing his lower back? His back isn't taking any significant load.
>Queen of England

Did you mean the [Queen of the United Kingdom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_of_the_United_Kingdom), the [Queen of Canada]
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monarchy_of_Canada), the [Queen of Australia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monarchy_of_Australia), etc?

The last Queen of England was [Queen Anne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anne,_Queen_of_Great_Britain) who, with the 1707 Acts of Union, dissolved the title of
King/Queen of England.

####FAQ

*Isn't she still also the Queen of England?*

This is only as correct as calling her the Queen of London or Queen of Hull; she is the Queen of the place that these places are in, but the title doesn't exist.

*Is this bot monarchist?*

No, just pedantic.

I am a bot and this action was performed automatically.
I thought you were a mineralogist?
You should consider seeing professional psychiatric care.
Sure

That’s why you nuke your comments
What do you get out of lying?
Have you considered LARPing as a mineralogist? I hear there’s a real lack of actual PTs doing that these days.
Hey now, maybe he’s on that cranial BFR program. Certainly doesn’t seem to be getting full perfusion up top.
I'm not trolling. You're meant to arch during a bench press. It's good form. So how is this excessive? What degree of arch is OK? Just answer the fucking question if
you think you're the expert.
Are you just incapable of answering questions?

You're not meant to bench with a straight back. Srs.
Lol is it the penis guy again? It's been a year or so I think but he's blocked so he's just yelling into the void.
Can you avoid pinging please?
How many bench pressers do you actually see presenting with nerve compression from arching?

Were you going to answer this question /u/seasickelijah?
I was also in and out of PT for years, and most of those times I went to PT at a sports medicine practice. The majority of their patients seemed to be runners,
golfers, and kids (teens/college age) playing team sports. I'm very confused by the statement that "most common complaints come from lifters." The only
interpretation I can think of that makes sense is that they're saying that some of the most overall common complaints (e.g. lower back pain or knee pain) from
people in general also come from lifters. Which probably isn't wrong but doesn't mean much.
My first practice was actually out of a gym that offered PT, chiro and massage. Many clients followed me when I moved to private practice.

Your experience in what you saw is fairly normal and as time moves on, my clientele is progressing towards that as well.

I did get a focus on exercise science and sports therapy.
Lifters are more of a plurality for me, Rather than a majority. Complaints being what they are presenting to the clinic.

Sorry for the confusion.
Hell I’m a real DPT so I’ll tack on as well just for funsies. u/seasickelijah is absolutely, 100% not a physical therapist, and is completely full of shit.
Because that makes no sense.
I doubt that, especially since you post on NoJ. Nobody there even lifts.
Maybe this is where I’m going wrong because all the power in my right shoulder just goes after a good few. Left continues as normal but makes it harder for my
lagging right but if I try keep level my right won’t finish at all. Don’t know why so I’ll give it a try
TBF, I should have said reducing rather than taking off as it is still having some load. But you're basically doing an explosive movement to counter-act the chest not
being able to take the weight. This \*can\* be bad for the lower back because if he doesn't support his core during this burst of movement, then it will cause a load to
go through that area. It will just be for a moment, but that can cause damage.

That said, the potential for back damage is still low (though dependent on weight) but the main issue is that this form literally does little for you beyond ego-lifting.
good bot
Don’t worry, I’m a psychologist slash numerologist (that was supposed to say minerologist but it autocorrected so now I’m adding it). I’m totally qualified to treat
them.
I’ve occasionally considered running head first into a brick wall, does that count?
I did, you just missed the point.

An arch is normal and healthy. I said that maybe 5 posts ago. In his particularly video, he’s demonstrating excessive arching. It’s very clear in the video when you
watch him settle into the bench, then picks up his entire lumbar spine before the first rep.
Cockblocking smh
Hah, yuuup. Whatever happened to fun trolls? This shit is weak
Why would I do anything to help a shitty, weak troll like you?
Maybe it's the company I keep, maybe not, but I have heard more about golf related injuries than anything else in my adult life. Golf needs more fear mongering.
You don't think it's a bit self selecting that your clientele came out of a gym offering PT, chiropractic, and massage? How does that make this

>in the PT world, our most common complaints come from lifters

true? Would the masseurs also say the majority of people they saw were lifters? It's like the juice bar at my gym saying "we get so many people wearing stringers! It
must be a very popular casualwear item!"
So by "PT world" you meant "gym." K.
Are you an experienced lifter? How much do you bench?
Is this before or after you stopped being a massage therapist/a mineralogist/getting your geology degree (or do you already have that?). You're all over the place
here dude.
>TBF, I should have said reducing rather than taking off as it is still having some load. But you're basically doing an explosive movement to counter-act the chest
not being able to take the weight.

Leg drive is a widely accepted bench pressing method that does allow you to lift more weight if done correctly but hardly counter-acts the chest.

>This \*can\* be bad for the lower back because if he doesn't support his core during this burst of movement, then it will cause a load to go through that area. It will
just be for a moment, but that can cause damage.

The loading on the back is so minimal that it would only cause an issue if you had a pre-existing condition. Srs.

>That said, the potential for back damage is still low (though dependent on weight) but the main issue is that this form literally does little for you beyond ego-lifting.

Ignoring the fact that ego-lifting is an idiotic term generally used by weak and ignorant people to diminish the efforts of others, if this form allows you to lift more
weight for reps through the same range of motion then it means that you're probably producing greater muscular stimulus overall, so it hardly does little for you.
Absolutely
How is it excessive? The lumbar spine is meant to be curved and can handle a degree of extension.
>It’s very clear in the video when you watch him settle into the bench, then picks up his entire lumbar spine before the first rep.

I think I see what you're saying, and I'd like to help by clarifying this is his set up and not his actual benching with an arch. My arms are too short to unload heavy
weights from the rack, and [this same movement **helps**, not hurts me unrack the weight safely](https://i.imgur.com/rkXz0a6.mp4). The more you comment the
more it seems like you have never performed a bench press yourself at any significantly challenging weight. Or perhaps in your PT experience you haven't run into
anyone with arms that are 1-2 inches shorter than equipment was designed for.
A+ for consistency

C- for effort

F for creativity

I forgot what the original problem was but he just got super butthurt over something I said in r/bodybuilding lol
Is everything ok?
You are right, I made a broad assumption.

Certainly for where I was working, that was the case.
Gym, hospital, private clinic.

Doesn’t matter, it’s working on people.
Yes, I’ve been lifting for 15 years.
[deleted]
Like [this](https://youtu.be/1E6IfdUJn6s) I guess
Again, it can curve and a slight arch is fine. This video is not demonstrating a slight arch, but an excessive one.
They asked me on the post I tagged you, apparently unironically, "Can you avoid pinging please?"

As if some dipshit running the lamest troll possible deserves courtesy.
No, you're very bad at what you're doing. Even if you're doing something bad, you should strive to be good at it.
> You are right, I made a broad assumption.

#I am shocked! SHOCKED I TELL YOU!

Time to shut yourself up, I think.
Of course it matters. Your clientele will vary depending on the type and location of the practice. Obviously you'll see more lifters in a gym.
How much do you bench?
You forgot to tell us how much you bench. How much experience do you have with bench pressing exactly?
This is all very interesting but how much do you bench? Let's put this in terms we can all understand, like pounds on the bar through full range of motion.
But we can't honestly see that his glutes leave the bench and it is entirely possible that they don't.

Furthermore the glutes being on the bench really isn't that crucial for stability or support. That is more reliant on the tension through torso and your upper back being
firmly pressed against the bench.

Nor does lifting the glutes off the bench really increase the risk of injury. Srs.
>Again, it can curve and a slight arch is fine. This video is not demonstrating a slight arch, but an excessive one.

It's really not. This guys arch is pretty minor and shouldn't be causing any issues at all. Srs.
Can you provide an example of a non-excessive arch?
At this point I'm convinced that you're a Markov chain bot and not an actual person.
It's actually kinda convenient, he is courteous enough to tell people I can deadlift 800lbs without my having to.
I'm sorry for upsetting you. What can I do to make it right?
I can’t speak for all PTs you are right.

However, my point for this man’s form is still valid.
Lots of foreplay but there it is!
Dude he isn’t a pt. His comment history is all over the place with what his profession is. One comment says he’s a mineralogist and used to be a massage therapist.
Another says he hasn’t finished his geology degree and another says he has. It’s all over the place. His opinion is worthless
Despite increasing vaccination rates, with concerns about the delta variant, the coronavirus (COVID-19) situation continues to have a major effect on travel, with
many now looking to understand if, when, or how their travels might be feasible. Accordingly, /r/travel is continuing its megathreads on a monthly basis until the
crisis dissipates.

In the interest of reducing the number of one-off questions, **before you post a question about how to deal with your individual travel plans, consider whether your
situation is adequately addressed by the following:**

## Are borders open? What entry or transit restrictions are in place? Will I need to quarantine?

A list of travel restrictions can be found in a number of sources, including from [IATA](https://www.iatatravelcentre.com/international-travel-document-
news/1580226297.htm). Note that IATA only deals with travel restrictions by air (so it will not speak to any land border restrictions or closures).

You may also do well to check out government and embassy sources from the destination country (and sometimes from your own embassy in the destination
country). **Because information can change on short notice, it is important to verify the latest information, ideally from government sources.**

## ...in the US?
At the time of writing, *foreign nationals (regardless of vaccination status)* are prohibited from entering or transiting the US if they have been in *or transited* via
Brazil, China, India, Iran, Ireland, the Schengen Area, South Africa, or the UK in the preceding 14 days. Exceptions to this rule include green card holders, some
family members of US citizens and permanent residents, and holders of certain visas (e.g. F-1 visas under certain circumstances, and K-1 visas). *Note that (except
for, of course, US citizens) this is not a citizenship-based restriction; it is purely based on travel history.* **Because of this, those traveling from one of the restricted
countries are permitted to enter the US provided they spend two weeks prior to arrival in the US in a non-restricted country.** More information about the entry
restrictions and the associated proclamations is available on the [US CDC website](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/from-other-countries.html).

**All air passengers – regardless of origin, nationality, and vaccination status – [need to produce a negative result](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-
ncov/travelers/testing-international-air-travelers.html)** from a viral test taken within 3 days of the first flight on a single ticket to the US. Alternatively, you may travel
with a positive test result from the previous 3 months and a letter from a doctor indicating that you're clear for travel. The land borders with Mexico and Canada are
closed to all except those travelling for essential purposes, but [air, rail, and sea (but not commuter rail or ferry) ports-of-entry remain open]
(https://ca.usembassy.gov/travel-restrictions-fact-sheet/) to non-essential travel.

**No nationwide quarantine requirements exist.** Some individual states and/or cities may have their own recommendations, but, outside Hawaii, these are just
recommendations. **COVID tests are not being demanded at check-in, security, boarding, or arrival for domestic travel within the contiguous United States, and
checkpoints are not being set up at state borders.** Hawaii is the only state with strict testing and quarantine requirements of domestic travel.

For more information, see [the US CDC's COVID-19 page](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/index.html).

## ...in Canada?
**[Fully vaccinated travelers are now permitted to travel to Canada](https://travel.gc.ca/travel-covid/travel-restrictions/covid-vaccinated-travellers-entering-canada),
subject to standard visa requirements, without quarantine.**

Unvaccinated travelers are still barred from entering Canada unless they are traveling for certain, mostly essential reasons, *regardless of mode of travel*.
Unvaccinated travelers who are permitted to travel to Canada for non-essential purposes include – aside from Canadians – permanent residents and certain family
members of Canadians and permanent residents. Those wishing to travel to Canada on compassionate reasons may do so provided they receive authorization
from the Public Health Agency of Canada. Unvaccinated travelers must quarantine for 14 days upon arrival. They will also be required to take a test on arrival and
on Day 8 of quarantine.

All travelers, regardless of vaccination status, must provide a negative result from a molecular test (such as a PCR or NAAT test) taken within 72 hours of the last
direct international flight to Canada or, if traveling overland/water, within 72 hours of entering Canada. Antigen tests are not accepted. Alternatively, provided they
are not experiencing symptoms, a *positive* test from between 14 and 180 days prior to departure is accepted. Direct flights from India and Morocco are
temporarily suspended; travelers from those countries traveling to Canada via an indirect route may not produce tests from those countries either.

All travelers, regardless of vaccination status, are required to fill out [ArriveCAN](https://www.canada.ca/en/public-health/services/diseases/coronavirus-disease-
covid-19/arrivecan.html) within 72 hours of travel. As part of this process, vaccinated travelers must upload proof of vaccination. Further, all travelers must input
details of a quarantine plan; although vaccinated travelers do not need to quarantine, they still must fill out this information in case they are deemed ineligible for the
vaccinated-traveler exemptions.

Fully airside international transits are permitted, regardless of vaccination status. Those traveling airside without entering Canada are not subject to testing,
quarantine, or ArriveCAN requirements. For more information, see [the Canadian government's COVID-19 travel restrictions page](https://travel.gc.ca/travel-covid).

## ...in Mexico?

At the time of writing, there are no changes to Mexico's standard entry requirements. However, the land border with the United States is officially closed to all except
those travelling for essential purposes. Travelers must fill out a "Questionnaire of Identification of Risk Factors in Travelers" to present upon arrival. There are no
quarantine or testing requirements upon arrival in Mexico.

For more information, see information provided by Mexican embassies, including the [Mexican Embassy in the Netherlands]
(https://embamex.sre.gob.mx/paisesbajos/index.php/foreign-nationals/frequent-questions).

## ...in the UK?

Starting Oct. 4, travel restrictions to England (and not necessarily the other constituent countries of the UK) are being simplified. [Eligible fully vaccinated travelers]
(https://www.gov.uk/guidance/red-amber-and-green-list-rules-for-entering-england#fully-vaccinated) traveling from non-red countries will be permitted to travel to
England without a pre-departure test and without quarantining upon arrival. Such travelers must take a COVID test (from late-Oct, a lateral flow test, which is
cheaper) on the second day after arrival.

At the time of writing, *foreign nationals* are barred from entering the UK if they have entered or transited one of the [counties on the "red list"]
(https://www.gov.uk/guidance/red-amber-and-green-list-rules-for-entering-england#red-list) within the previous 10 days. This list is subject to change. Irish citizens
and those with UK resident permits are, in addition to UK nationals, exempted from this restriction.

As of now (subject to the aforementioned exemptions from Oct. 4 onward), **all passengers entering [or transiting](https://www.gov.uk/uk-border-control/layovers-
and-transiting) through the UK from outside the Common Travel Area (which comprises the UK, Ireland, the Isle of Man, and the Channel Islands) need to produce
a negative PCR, LAMP, or antigen test taken within 3 days of their last direct flight (or other mode of transit) to the UK**. Those who have only been/transited in
["green list" countries](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/red-amber-and-green-list-rules-for-entering-england#green-list) in the previous ten days are not required to
quarantine, although they must still take a COVID-19 test the second day after arrival. In England, people that have only been/transited in ["amber list" countries]
(https://www.gov.uk/guidance/red-amber-and-green-list-rules-for-entering-england#amber-list) who have been **fully vaccinated under the UK programme or in the
EU, US, or Switzerland**, are [also not required to quarantine](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/how-to-quarantine-when-you-arrive-in-england#rules-if-youre-fully-
vaccinated), although they must still take a COVID-19 test the second day after arrival. *The restriction is based on travel history, not nationality.*

All other international arrivals (including UK citizens) will need to quarantine for 10 days after arrival and take a COVID-19 test on the second and eighth days after
arrival. Passengers who have not been/transited in any of the red list countries over the previous ten days may shorten their quarantines in England if they [test
negative](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/coronavirus-covid-19-test-to-release-for-international-travel) at least 5 days into their quarantine period. In England,
passengers are also [permitted to leave quarantine to depart the country](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/how-to-quarantine-when-you-arrive-in-england#quarantine-
for-10-days-after-you-arrive).

Unless falling under the "green list" exemption, all travelers, regardless of nationality, coming from outside the Common Travel Area will, in addition to getting tested
before departure, need to take a test on the second and eighth days after arrival. These tests need to be [pre-booked before departure]
(https://quarantinehotelbookings.ctmportal.co.uk/).

All travelers that have been/transited in any of the "red list" countries over the previous ten days must book, at their own expense, a hotel room for their quarantine.
For those destined for Scotland, *all travelers* who have been outside the Common Travel Area in the previous ten days must book a hotel room for their
quarantines. These hotel rooms must be [booked in advance](https://quarantinehotelbookings.ctmportal.co.uk/), along with the mandatory tests on the second and
eighth days of quarantine.

With "lockdown" measures in place within the UK, there may be restrictions on travel purposes to, from, or within the constituent countries. For example, [travel to
and from Scotland is prohibited](https://www.gov.scot/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-guidance-on-travel-and-transport/) except for limited purposes.

For more information, see [UK Border Control](https://www.gov.uk/uk-border-control) and the [UK government's information about travel measures]
(https://www.gov.uk/guidance/transport-measures-to-protect-the-uk-from-variant-strains-of-covid-19).

## ...in the EU? In the Schengen Area?

In June 2020, the European Commission recommended that external borders be reopened to short-term visitors arriving from several countries deemed to have
adequately maintained the virus. **This [list of countries](https://ec.europa.eu/info/live-work-travel-eu/coronavirus-response/travel-during-coronavirus-
pandemic_en), however, is non-binding among member countries and is subject to change.** The European Commission generally reviews its list every two weeks.

Nevertheless, several countries within the EU or the Schengen Area have used this list as guidance, permitting arrivals from these countries as well as "EU+"
countries (which includes EU and Schengen countries, and sometimes the UK). These restrictions typically are not based on nationality but rather travel history
and/or residency; consult resources from your destination country. However, multiple EU countries have temporarily placed additional restrictions on travel from
specific countries (e.g. the UK) or have reinstated broad restrictions for those from outside the EU, the Schengen Area, or their own countries due to discoveries of
new COVID variants. Fully airside non-Schengen to non-Schengen transits are typically permitted, but confirm and consult resources from your transit country to
see if further documentation (which may, at times, include negative test results) is required.

In May 2021, the European Commission recommended EU states loosen travel restrictions, including by allowing vaccinated travelers to travel to Europe. However,
once again, each EU country has the ultimate say on its border policies. As the various EU and Schengen countries have opened their external borders to third-
country nationals in various ways and with different exceptions, it is imperative that travelers check the entry requirements for their ports-of-entry. A summary of
travel restrictions is [provided by the European Union](https://reopen.europa.eu/en), but many have reported that government (e.g. embassy or foreign ministry)
resources have been more detailed and accurate.

**[This section is in the process of being expanded]**

###...in France?
Vaccinated travelers, regardless of origin, are permitted to travel to France under standard visa/entry requirements. Such travelers are required to supply proof of
vaccination and fill out a sworn declaration confirm no COVID symptoms and no recent close COVID contacts. Vaccinated travelers are not required to produce a
negative test before departure or quarantine upon arrival.

Unvaccinated travelers are subjected to different requirements depending on the country from which they arrive. Those coming from countries on the "green list"
are permitted to travel to France for any reason, provided they supply a negative result from a PCR or antigen test taken within 72 hours of the flight. Those coming
from countries on the "orange list" may only travel if they have a pressing reason to travel; a negative result from a PCR test taken within 72 hours, or an antigen
test taken within 48 hours, of the flight must be produced and self-isolation for 7 days upon is required. Those coming from a "red list" country may only travel for
pressing results and must supply a negative result from a PCR or antigen test taken within 48 hours of the flight; a ten-day supervised quarantine is required. In all
cases, a certificate of recovery may be provided in lieu of a negative test result.

For more information, see the [French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs](https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/coming-to-france/coronavirus-advice-for-foreign-
nationals-in-france/#sommaire_1).

###...in Portugal?
Travelers from certain countries – as of Sep. 17: EU and Schengen countries, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, China (including Hong Kong and
Macau), South Korea, United States of America, Jordan, New Zealand, Qatar, Republic of Moldova, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Taiwan, Ukraine, United Kingdom –
are permitted to travel to Portugal for any reason without quarantine upon arrival. Travelers from other origins may only travel to Portugal for essential reasons.

All travelers entering or transiting Portugal must produce proof of vaccination in the form of an EU Digital Certification or, alternatively, a negative result of a PCR or
NAAT test taken within 72 hours of first embarkation of an antigen test taken within 48 hours of first embarkation. All travelers must fill out a [Passenger Locator
Card](https://portugalcleanandsafe.pt/en/passenger-locator-card). Travelers arriving from India, Nepal, or South Africa must quarantine for 14 days and register in
advance at https://travel.sef.pt/.

## ...in South Korea?

At the time of writing, [most nationalities](http://viewer.moj.go.kr/skin/doc.html?rs=/result/bbs/229&fn=temp_1586503947805100) with visa-free or visa-waiver
arrangements with Korea have had their visa-free/waiver status suspended, primarily on the basis of the reciprocal entry restrictions for Korean citizens. There are
also additional entry and transit restrictions of those traveling from China.

All passengers must have a negative LAMP, PCR, SDA, or TMA test taken within 72 hours of departure of the first flight en route to Korea. International arrivals,
with few exceptions (including vaccinated Koreans and those vaccinated in Korea), will be required to quarantine for 14 days; non-residents will be required to
quarantine in government facilities at their own expense.

For more information, see the [Korea Immigration Service](http://www.immigration.go.kr/immigration_eng/index.do).

## ...in Japan?

At the time of writing, foreign nationals who have been in one of 150+ countries for purposes other than transit are not permitted to enter Japan. Further, visas and
visa exemptions for nationals from many countries have been suspended. Permanent residents, long-term residents, and spouses and children of Japanese
citizens may be exempt from these entry restrictions provided they meet certain conditions.

Those individuals, including Japanese citizens, that are permitted to enter Japan will be required to undergo a 14-day quarantine. All travelers will be required to
provide proof of a negative result from a test taken within 72 hours of departure for Japan. Additional restrictions are in place for those travelling from the UK or
South Africa.

For more information, see the [Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan](https://www.mofa.go.jp/ca/fna/page4e_001053.html).

## ...in Thailand?

At the time of writing, Thailand is accepting travelers that have the proper visa or are visa-exempt unless traveling from Bangladesh, India, Nepal, or Pakistan. Visa-
on-arrival facilities, as well as visa-exempt status for nationals of Cambodia and Myanmar, are suspended. Travelers entering Thailand must have a negative PCR
test taken within 72 hours of the first embarkation point. Travelers transiting Thailand must either have a negative PCR test result or have be fully vaccinated.
Passengers must have a Certificate of Entry issued by a Thai embassy.

All travelers entering the country are subject to a 14-day quarantine, with the exception of those entering under "sandbox" setup. Under the sandbox program,
vaccinated tourists may travel to, and stay within, designated areas for 14 days before traveling elsewhere in Thailand. For now, Phuket is the only location
participating in this program. Starting mid-October, additional areas, including Bangkok and Chiang Mai, will participate (and some initial reports suggest tourists
would only need to stay for 7 days before being free to travel elsewhere). Under this program, you can travel to Thailand for less than the specified timeframe but,
in that instance, you must spend the entire time within the designated area.

## When will borders reopen or travel restrictions be lifted? Is it safe/a good idea to book travel for a particular time months ahead?

It is, of course, impossible to say when travel restrictions are lifted for every country. Where no news has been officially provided, it is often very difficult to predict
as countries will make decisions based on the progress of the pandemic – which is an unknown – as well as other pressures (e.g. economic or social). Consider
that the progress of the pandemic and efforts to combat it are unpredictable.
**Countries are approaching the vaccine rollouts in different ways.** Some countries are exempting vaccinated travelers from testing or quarantine requirements,
and some are even allowing vaccinated travelers to enter when they would not admit unvaccinated travelers. However, one should not assume special treatment on
account of your vaccinated status, as most countries still have not differentiated between vaccinated and unvaccinated travelers.

In the meantime, with the resurgences of cases and new variants recently discovered in several countries, some countries have firmed up travel restrictions,
requiring additional tests or quarantine periods or preventing travel from certain locations. Further, even if you are ultimately able to travel to your destination, there
may be "lockdowns" or widespread closures of businesses and places of interest.

Realize that you are taking a risk by deciding to speculatively book travel in the hopes that travel restrictions will be lifted by the time you travel, or even will remain
as liberal as they are in your destination today. With this unprecedented situation, old adages about when it's best to purchase airfare may no longer be valid. In
any event, be aware of the policies of your airlines and accommodations for credits and/or refunds should you need to reschedule or cancel.

Further, understand that airlines may make it very difficult to receive a refund, even if legally required. Many travelers have reported waiting months to receive
refunds on cancelled flights or otherwise being stonewalled when requesting a refund. And be aware that if your airline goes out of business, your funds could be
lost forever.

Take note of your jurisdiction's laws regarding refunds for cancelled flights. For example:

* [US Dept of Transportation: Refunds](https://www.transportation.gov/individuals/aviation-consumer-protection/refunds)
* [EU: Air passenger rights](https://europa.eu/youreurope/citizens/travel/passenger-rights/air/index_en.htm)

## So should I cancel a trip that I've already booked? And how? Will insurance help?

These questions were covered at length in the [second megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/fjhjoz/coronavirus_megathread_for_travelrelated/).
Although countries may be starting to "reopen", the points therein are still relevant.

**Previous related megathreads:**

* [First virus megathread (Jan 23–Mar 15, 2020)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/esruar/wuhan_virus_megathread_for_your_questions_and/)
* [Europe to US travel suspension megathread (Mar 12–15, 2020)]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/fha30l/europe_to_us_travel_suspension_megathread_for/)
* [Second virus megathread (Mar 16–May 23, 2020)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/fjhjoz/coronavirus_megathread_for_travelrelated/)
* [Third virus megathread (May 24–Aug 15, 2020)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/gppx3b/coronavirus_megathread_iii_for_travelrelated/)

*Semi-monthly megathreads:*

* [Late Aug 2020 megathread (Aug 16–31)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/iaj2q7/coronavirus_megathread_late_aug_2020_for/)
* [Early Sep 2020 megathread (Sep 1–15)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/ik9oau/coronavirus_megathread_early_sep_2020_for/)
* [Late Sep 2020 megathread (Sep 15–30)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/ituquf/coronavirus_megathread_late_sep_2020_for/)
* [Early Oct 2020 megathread (Oct 1–15)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/j2xr1q/coronavirus_megathread_early_oct_2020_for/)
* [Late Oct 2020 megathread (Oct 16–31)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/jbz94w/coronavirus_megathread_late_oct_2020_for/)
* [Early Nov 2020 megathread (Nov 1–15)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/jlsvf4/coronavirus_megathread_early_nov_2020_for//)
* [Late Nov 2020 megathread (Nov 16–30)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/jv0e99/coronavirus_megathread_late_nov_2020_for/)
* [Early Dec 2020 megathread (Dec 1–15)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/k48sqa/coronavirus_megathread_early_dec_2020_for/)
* [Late Dec 2020 megathread (Dec 16–31)](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/kdxsio/coronavirus_megathread_late_dec_2020_for/)

*Monthly megathreads:*

* [Jan 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/ko10zv/coronavirus_megathread_jan_2021_for_travelrelated/)
* [Feb 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/l9pnse/coronavirus_megathread_feb_2021_for_travelrelated/)
* [Mar 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/luufdm/coronavirus_megathread_mar_2021_for_travelrelated/)
* [Apr 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/mhj3fb/coronavirus_megathread_apr_2021_for_travelrelated/)
* [May 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/n26pd5/coronavirus_megathread_may_2021_for_travelrelated/)
* [Jun 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/npgui0/coronavirus_megathread_jun_2021_for_travelrelated/)
* [Jul 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/ob9t96/coronavirus_megathread_jul_2021_for_travelrelated/)
* [Aug 2021 megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/ovhvtx/coronavirus_megathread_aug_2021_for_travelrelated/)
On Aug. 30, the European Council provided its latest update to its [list of recommended countries](https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-
releases/2021/08/30/covid-19-council-removes-5-countries-and-one-entity-territorial-authority-from-the-list-of-countries-for-which-travel-restrictions-should-be-lifted/)
for whom restrictions on non-essential travel to the EU should be relaxed. This list is reviewed approximately every two weeks.

As has always been the case, COVID restrictions are ultimately up to individual countries, and some countries have deviated substantially from the
recommendation list. Because of that, **one's inclusion or omission from the recommendation list does not ultimately dictate the ability to travel to the EU**. For
example, on official websites, you can find entry restrictions and requirements for [France](https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/coming-to-france/coronavirus-advice-
for-foreign-nationals-in-france/#sommaire_1), [Germany](https://www.bmi.bund.de/SharedDocs/faqs/EN/topics/civil-protection/coronavirus/travel-restrictions-border-
control/travel-restriction-border-control-list.html), and [Italy](https://www.salute.gov.it/portale/nuovocoronavirus/dettaglioContenutiNuovoCoronavirus.jsp?
lingua=english&id=5412&area=nuovoCoronavirus&menu=vuoto). Other countries may have similar pages.

This update also comes with the note "This is without prejudice to the possibility for member states to lift the temporary restriction on non-essential travel to the EU
for fully vaccinated travellers." Again, any concessions afforded to vaccinated travelers will be on an individual country basis. One should also be aware that testing
and quarantine requirements vary by country.
The US will open their borders to fully vaccinated travelers ~~only from the EU & UK~~ *from all countries* in November, per CNN. They “will have to follow a strict
protocol to complete travel.”

e: [story here.](https://www.cnn.com/2021/09/20/politics/biden-administration-international-travel-restrictions/index.html) Welcome back, European friends.
I'm currently on a flight from Houston to Amsterdam. There are 200 empty seats. The new quarantine rules may have caused a lot of cancellations. I was required
to fill out a quarantine form at check in. Luckily I'm just transiting through to Prague and that was listed as an exemption to the quarantine rules. I will update on my
progress to my destination.

Update: I'm through passport control in Amsterdam. They did not look at or ask for the quarantine form. They looked at vaccination card and passport, asked the
typical questions and sent me to my gate.

Update 2: No issues at Prague customs. They asked for negative covid test or vaccination card. I had both. They also asked for the passenger locator form, which I
filled out upon departure. They also had kiosks set up for those that hadn't completed this. Good luck all!
Watch your country's entry restrictions like a hawk. Netherlands just announced a mandatory quarantine for travelers from high risk areas (America included),
without respect to vaccination or negative test, beginning September 4th. [Link](https://www.government.nl/topics/coronavirus-covid-19/visiting-the-netherlands-
from-abroad/self-quarantine/mandatory-quarantine)
Anyone else get that email from France saying they won’t be able to process all the Health Passes?
So, while not officially finalized, it appears that as of 9/22, fully vaccinated travelers from the US won’t need to mandatory quarantine after entering the Netherlands:

> Travel
> The rules on self-quarantining for people travelling to the Netherlands will change as of 22 September. Vaccinated travellers from the United States, the United
Kingdom and other very high-risk areas no longer have to self-quarantine on arrival in the Netherlands. Prepare your journey well. Before you leave, check the
travel advice on wijsopreis.nl (in Dutch) and reizentijdenscorona.rijksoverheid.nl/en.

From [here](https://www.government.nl/topics/coronavirus-covid-19/news/2021/09/14/netherlands-to-reopen-further-with-coronavirus-entry-passes). Also it seems
that a health pass will be introduced, so hopefully there’s a similar conversion mechanism like pass sanitaire for us travelers…
Canadian reporting from Italy (heading home tomorrow)!

Getting here was relatively easy - they just asked for proof of vaccination and EU passenger locator form at the gate to board the plane (no Covid test required)
when we left Canada on August 23rd. The border agents in Italy didn’t check anything upon arrival (Rome) and just stamped our passports.

Everything here has gone super smoothly. Everyone is masked and is being pretty careful. We only ate outside (which is better anyway - summer in Italy!) and only
did a select few indoor activities (Uffizi, Vatican). We had zero issues with our green passes (BC CDC vaccination cards).

We used Artemisia labs here in Rome to get our return tests to board the plane, and we both tested negative! Results came back in less than 24 hours and it cost
us €60 per person. (I was nervous because Canada requires a PCR test and those take longer, but no issues.)

Feel free to ask any questions!
Just need a forum to vent a little so feel free to keep scrolling.

I have a trip to Sweden booked for the middle of Oct where I’m traveling with my gf, whose from SWE. It was originally scheduled for March 2020 but we rebooked
twice since then hoping the pandemic would calm down (lol). I’ve been really excited to travel since the main purpose was to meet her side of the family for the first
time. I was fully prepared to go through all the testing hoops but with today’s news… yeah, pretty fucking bummed but that’s just the time we’re living in.

So what I’m trying to say is fuck the anti-vaxxers.
I just returned from France to Canada, a couple of insights from my experience:

- I am vaccinated with a Pfizer-Moderna mix and was worried this wouldn’t count as vaccinated status to enter France. I flew with an antigen test, however all I got
asked at the border entry was whether I was vaccinated and how long I was staying. No one checked my sworn declaration form, but it was required to complete to
board the flight.

- We applied for the Pass Sanitaire but didn’t received it on time. We got antigen tests at pharmacies, those provide a pass for 72 hours and most pharmacies
provide a QR code that you can upload to the TousAntiCovid app, which is easier if you are looking to enter museums or restaurants. I know some people from
Quebec used their card and it worked, in Alberta we don’t have an actual card and we decided to avoid the hassle of having to explain every time what the piece of
paper was. Also, we were in Paris and in a couple of cities in southern France and the pass was requested from us at every restaurant to sit down; but interestingly
it was never requested to us to board trains (we took some long distance ones where it is a requirement)

- Prior to returning, make sure you check all requirements for entry to Canada, including a PCR test with less of 72 hours (not antigen! We actually saw some
people denied boarding because they didn’t check), and download and complete the information on the ArriveCAN app.

- Further to the above, arrive to the airport a bit early if you can. There are people checking all your documents at the bag drop-out in the airport counters so the
process is slow. They check for passports, ArriveCAN applications completed and your entry PCR test. On arrival, we also got checked at the airport before moving
to the border entry that we had our ArriveCAN application done.

Let me know any questions if there’s anything you’d like to know!
Just returned to the U.S. from Switzerland for two weeks.

Entering Switzerland was a breeze. We are vaccinated with Moderna (both doses). The airline asked to see proof when checking in, looked at our CDC cards and
no questions were asked. Nobody ever asked to see our entry forms, but we had them ready.

While in Switzerland, only one bar asked to see a covid certificate. And it was because after 9pm they turn their bar into a "nightclub" and let people inside without
masks. We showed security our CDC cards, he didn't like them, and had one of the bartenders look at them. They confirmed identity with our passports and gave
us the entry wristband. (Would recommend keeping the cards and passport with you)

Coming back to U.S. we needed a negative test within 3 days of departure. Was originally going to get it done at the airport which was 80 CHF per person. But then
we decided to ask our last hotel if there were any in the area. They had a full regional list ready to go. We contacted a pharmacy on the list, they said they can do it
for free until October 1. Got a rapid antigen test and they gave us both a certificate from the public health authority. No issues when showing this to anyone in the
airport. (we did have to show it and our passports about 900 times before and after boarding, a bit redundant) Also, the certificate is printed in one national
language as well as English (we were in Lugano, ours was in both Italian and English)

Feel free to ask questions, I had a lot going into this trip but everything went very smoothly for us. Just wanted to offer my insight to anyone that might need it.
It looks like France has just downgraded the US from “green” to the “orange” list - effectively eliminating travel for non-vaccinated.

My understanding is this should not affect vaccinated travelers, who still do not need to get a test before traveling to France (unless required by your airline). Does
anyone disagree? I realize obtaining a test is still likely the safest option.
US Citizen, flew back from Rome to US. FYI The Rome FCO airport has 20 EURO rapid Covid tests available on the lowest floor of Terminal 3. We were there by
7am for a 10am flight and had no issue with lines, etc. The Rome Termini train station also has free Covid tests going on just out front. Hopefully this helps
someone avoid the incredible stress my partner and I experienced the night before leaving when we didn’t yet have a Covid test lol
Sitting in the Rome airport so I thought I would give an update on our travels. Two vaccinated Americans who traveled from NEWARK-ATHENS-SANTORINI-
ROME-NEWARK

Newark - Athens: arrived 4 hours early for an emirates flight. Check in lines were somewhat long but were moving. Checked vaccine card and PLF and have us
boarding pass. Arrival at Athens. First EMS officers checked PLF and vaccine card. Actual customs agent only asked for passport.

Athens-Santorini: CDC card checked. Nothing else needed

Santorini - Rome: we assumed we would need a covid test and CDC card as the regulations had changed very recently. At Santorini check in they checked for CDC
card and PLF. Upon arrival in Rome nothing was checked (passports were not even stamped). I believe this was because this was an intra Schengen flight.

Rome - Newark: checked test and CDC card at United (which is a little weird because you do not need a vaccine to get into America. Only a negative test).

In Italy - most of all dining we did was outside. When we did dine inside CDC cards were accepted very easily even in small towns.

Hope this helps someone!
American just returned from a week in Romania on Sept 3- sharing experience in case helpful for anyone. Feel free to contact me with questions.

Flew Air France Boston to Paris. Showed CDC vaccine card (Pfizer) when checking in. No covid test required for outbound trip. Flight was about 75% full, most
people good with masking other than woman behind me with energetic toddler. I heard flight crew politely remind her once during flight.

Arrived at de Gaulle around 5am, relatively quiet in terminal, easy to find lounge chair to sleep for a few hours before departing flight to Bucharest. Everyone I saw
was masked.

AirFrance to Bucharest pretty full, everyone I saw masked and chill.

No issues with Bucharest arrival. Trip was awesome. 100% recommend Romania as destination. Driving was a breeze, too, especially coming from Boston which is
a driver's nightmare. Folks observed masking guidelines everywhere I went indoors, even gas stations and small shops far from cities. The only place I didn't see
much masking was at mass in a monastery in a rural area. Other than that people seem pretty OK with wearing them, or more so than where I'm coming from in
New England.

Did emed Binax now test a few days before departure, 12am Bucharest time. Got on within 5 minutes on laptop, zero issues, had results 15 minutes later. My big
mistake was doing it on a Tuesday for a Friday departure. Still can't figure out how I'm reading this wrong, but the CDC website gives example of someone flying on
a Friday being able to take the test anytime on the prior Tuesday or after ([https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/testing-international-air-
travelers.html](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/testing-international-air-travelers.html)). Got to airport check in, they would have accepted the
Binax results no problem except that the test was taken one day too early. Super easy to get tested at airport - an attendant walks you to a waiting van which drives
you 2 minutes from terminal, you take rapid test and they email you 15 minutes later. Cost 100 RON / less than $25 US.

KLM to Schiphol, KLM agents gave form required to sign for re-entry to US just attesting to basic COVID stuff. Return to US only required showing passport - no
further questions about covid test or vaccine. KLM flight to Boston full. Everyone I saw was regularly masked.

Hoping to travel there again in December but zero idea if this will be possible. Flights are really cheap but given KLM's news about cancelling routes from US and
general atmosphere of increased restrictions, I'm not getting my hopes up.

Hope some of this was helpful for folks!
I've been in Italy 5 days and it seems they just changed the requirements on September 1st! For trains at least (unsure about other locations) they won't accept my
CDC Vaccination Card. They demand a QR code. I called the ministry of health who said this is correct. I emailed the US Embassy who said, quote:
"white cards will be considered the equivalent of the Italian Green Pass where this requirement exists. Said ordinance was extended until October 25, 2021 on
August 30th"

Am I missing something or is there a discrepancy here? Does anyone know any more about this?

Edit 1: To clarify, the guy on the (Italo) train said the CDC cards were accepted yesterday, but not anymore, so he was aware of CDC cards. I think this is just a
bureaucratic mess though. No idea what the law is supposed to be. Tons of conflicting information across websites and from authorities. He let it slide but I wouldn't
bet on this.

Edit 2: my current plan is to get antigen test which gives results in 20 minutes and is valid for 48 hours. Use www.faiuntestevai.it/en/ to find testing centers. Use
Google search to make sure the testing center is well rated. Some of them take online reservations, some don't. Best to just go in and talk to them IMO.

Edit 3: Just for fun I'm going to go to the US Embassy in Florence in person and talk to someone. I'll update here.
Anyone else (full vax) get super paranoid about testing positive before their flight home? My flight is in 2 days and I just took my PCR test today, I’ll get the results
tomorrow.

I’m really worried I’ll test positive. I had a tiny bit of a dry throat the last couple of days and a headache since yesterday (but I think the headache is due to stress
because I’ve been having a terrible time dealing with some other personal stuff going on).

Maybe I’m overthinking it
Hey there! My girlfriend and I are traveling from the US to Italy this weekend! With the newly imposed requirement for a COVID test for entry, I am wondering if the
BinaxNOW Home Tests (with emed) are accepted for entry. I ordered a 6 pack to use for return to the US, so already have them handy. The guidance from Italy
requires a molecular or antigen, swab-based test. I don't see why these would not meet the requirement, but would hate to get to the airport and find out otherwise. I
contacted Delta support and they said it would "probably" be fine after doing a Google search. I haven't found any solid confirmation, so hoping someone here has
already used it for travel and can confirm! Thanks.
Just returned back from 2 weeks tour in Italy: Venice -> Verona -> Bologna -> Florence -> Rome -> Naples -> Pompei. Fully vaxxed Canadian (Quebec).

So canadian proof of vaccination (in my case Quebec QR code) was accepted in most of the museums, churches, and restaurants. Just had few refuses: one cafe
in Verona, one restaurant in Bologna, and Capitolian museum in Rome (but anyway it looked not very popular so we just visited the Etruscan museum instead).

Touristic attractions were not busy because seems like people were still afraid to make trips. For example, we were able to go to St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican
without staying in line.

Before flying back to Canada you have to take a PCR test within 72h (price around 60EUR/person). After landing you have to take a test again but turned out it's
just selective and in our case, we were able to skip it. Don't forget to fill ArriveCAN (one application for family). It gives you code that you have to show on passport
control.

**Be aware of taxis in Naples**. They don't use taximeters and try to cheat tourists. If you don't negotiate the price in advance, you may end up paying 30EUR for
just a 3km trip. Used taxi 3 times there and same story all the time.

If any questions feel free to ask.
I'll be taking a train between Rome and Florence on Sept 9. Can anyone who has taken a regional train after September 1 let me know if they accepted Canadian or
American proof of vaccine?
Hello Friends!

Info for future Italy travelers if needed.
I just returned from a 10 day trip from NYC JFK to Milan, Italy. At check in before my flight to Milan I was required to show my passport, EUPLF QR code, and my
CDC vaccination card. We were not asked to show a negative covid test although we did have two rapid test results ready.
Upon arrival in Italy we only were asked to show our passports and they briefly looked at our vaccine card.

While in Italy we were asked to show our vaccine card practically everywhere to enter...even McDonalds and the major tourist attractions. So keep those on you at
all times.

You do need to show a negative covid test to return to the USA. Take my advice and schedule those in advance. Ask your hotel to make a reservation for you or
stop at almost any pharmacy. The rapid test for two was about 56 Euros. Remember, schedule in advance by like a day or two.

Returning to America we were asked to show our passport and negative covid test. America accepts the covid results in both English and Italian (and a bunch of
other languages) so don't stress yourself looking for a pharmacy that'll print results in English.

We had no issues re-entering the USA.

Have fun on your trip!
**USA-UK transit -Italy; Return Italy-Spain transit-USA** 9/16 -9/26 experience

Thought some may find my experience helpful as I was pretty stressed trying to research requirements etc and this thread was helpful.

* Took CVS rapid antigen test prior to departure. Destination was Italy but transited UK (LHR) so wanted to ensure test was 48 hours prior to arrival. Received
results back via email from CVS in about an hour. Real easy.
* I completed the online [UK Travel Locator Form](https://www.gov.uk/provide-journey-contact-details-before-travel-uk) after checking for my flight 24 hours prior as
it required seat number on the form and that was assigned at check-in. Takes some time to figure out how to complete it properly but it does walk you through it. I
was just transiting so answered accordingly.
* I completed the [EU Digital Passenger Locator Form](https://app.euplf.eu/#/) online in order to enter Italy from UK.
* I completed forms on behalf of my entire family of 4.
* I flew American (British Airways and Iberia) so used the Verifly App. I read a few people saying it was useless but that wasn't my experience. I used it for the flight
USA to UK. It allowed me to add a photo, complete some attestations, vax card (I think) and upload test results for everyone in my party. In the end, you get a green
check in the app saying your paperwork is ok. I was unable to use Verifly for the UK to Italy trip, or should say I couldn't get it to pull up my flights.

**Day of Travel**

* Checked in at British Airways counter at BOS. While in line the initial screener saw my green check on Verifly and waved me up to the counter which saved some
time. The person at the counter then reviewed my UK travel locator form (made sure I had one), etc and spent a little time scanning test results. Amazed me that it
was up to them to screen and ensure everything was correct, including my final destination of Italy which has pretty strict testing rules on travelers from the UK (test
within 48 hours prior to arrival).
* Landed in the UK, passports stamped and went to our gate. Don't recall anyone checking for the UK Travel Locator Form but maybe since it's online it was linked
up when heading through passport control.
* Landing in Italy. Simply waited in a line and when we were called up the gentleman saw I had a printed EU locator form with a bar code and he simply waved us
through without checking anything in detail. Was amazed actually. My experience was the scrutiny and review was done at initial check-in and/or behind the scenes
completing the Locator Forms.

**Return**

Took the Abbott Binax Now eMed test (packed them with us after buying through Optum) while in our Rome hotel room. Took it at 11AM on Thursday prior to our
flight home on Sunday (3 days prior to departure day). Wanted to test asap in case of positive and/or less exposure time. I expected a cluster f but apart from a few
internet blips, we only waited 15 minutes for the proctor to come on and they walk you through everything. Results returned in the Navica app (test takes 20
minutes to get results) and you are able to download them to your phone in pdf form then print (via email etc) if you want.

Flew FCO through Madrid to Boston on way home. Spain does not have testing requirement if coming from Schengen but do have their own form to complete
online in advance [https://www.spth.gob.es/create](https://www.spth.gob.es/create) Fairly straightforward for transit.

At FCO check-in, the person checked our test results (on our phones) and that we had the FCS form completed. That was about it. Landing in Madrid we were
stamped out just showing passports and headed to our gate. At the gate for the flight back to the US, Verifly saved time. I had added the Spain to USA trip to the
app and completed/uploaded the test results and other documents. The person at the gate saw we were all green check marked on the app and they gave us the
Documents OK stamp on our boarding passes and we proceeded to the gate. Quick temp check and then took our seats.

My 2 cents. Complete the online forms in advance, get testing done in accordance with both the transit and final destination country and consider paper copies.
Everything will work out. And consider leaving some extra time, especially on the EU side and even more so if connecting. I wouldn't feel comfortable with less than
a 2 hour layover. Saw many people who missed their flights back yesterday.

Almost forgot. Green Pass required before entering buildings (museums, restaurants, etc). CDC paper card worked fine but did have to show ID a few times to
prove your identity (Ufizzi and Pantheon) so carry your license or passport with you. Got tripped up a few times on this. Masks everywhere inside and on transit. No
issues. Florence and Rome strict on Green Pass indoors and hotel, Tuscany not as much.

Overall a good trip but is stressful getting all the paperwork and protocols in order and keeping distant and outside to reduce chance of a covid positive result and
mandatory quarantine before heading back to US. I hope this was helpful.
[deleted]
Just a heads up: looks like a couple of countries (Croatia and Austria) are now requiring that visitors' vax cards be no older than 270 days, effectively setting an
expiry date for vaxxed travelers. If this becomes a trend, then boosters might be increasingly necessary going forward.

https://www.forbes.com/sites/suzannerowankelleher/2021/08/18/covid-booster-countries-vaccine-expiry-travel/
Portugal just updated their travel restrictions, American are still on the nonessential travel list but the other 4 countries taken off the EU safe travel list weren’t so
lucky. Brazilians we’re added as well or nonessential travel.
Got my negative PCR test through CVS and traveling to Italy tomorrow. How do I present proof of the negative test? I have the option to log into mychart and then
print my results, but is that sufficient?
Hi we are travelling to Italy next week from Canada and my wife and I are both double vaccinated.

With the latest restrictions, can anyone give me any update with how the train systems are working as they have the green pass now. Will we need to get tested to
use them? I know we need to get tested upon entry (and fill out locator form), but can't seem to figure out how the rest of our time will go. Like do we need
something besides our vaccination receipts to get into restaurants and attractions?

Any info would be wonderful. Thank you!
I just arrived in Belgium last night. I thought I'd describe my experience in case it's useful to anyone.

The short version is that it was incredibly simple, though I was not coming directly from the US.

I've been in Dublin since August 29th. On my PLF I filled out just the exact truth: that I've been in the US and Ireland in the last 14 days, that I'm fully vaccinated,
and that I have proof of a negative covid test (I took one in Dublin within 72 hours of departure, though I'm not sure it was required by anyone -- not by Ryanair, not
by Irish customs, nor by Belgian customs). I also said I did not fit any exemption categories.

I printed my forms (PLF, boarding pass, negative test results) and took them to the airport. I had to go to ticketing to get a "real" boarding pass regardless. They
only asked to see my passport, but I had already uploaded the negative test and proof of vaccine to the Ryanair app in advance, so they may have looked at that,
I'm not sure.
That was it for Dublin.

Once in Brussels, customs was literally nothing more than a look at my passport and handing over my PLF. It took less than 30 seconds. Within minutes I had an
email (in French, so use a translator if you don't speak it) telling me that I fit an exception category (I don't, btw) and won't have to undergo testing or quarantine.

So that's it. I'm in Brussels with zero restrictions.

I'm not sure if this is because I took a test before leaving, because I couldn't tell you if anyone even looked at it, but I am glad I took it. I'm not going to look a gift
horse in the mouth.

Let me know if you have any questions, and happy travels!
I am an American citizen who flew from Boston Logan Airport to Lisbon. Took TAP air Portugal. They checked our negative covid test once at check-in, and once at
the border control when entering Lisbon. I don't think anybody actually looked at our locator card. If you do not check in at the baggage check in, you will have to
check in at the gate. After they confirm your passport and negative covid test, the will give you a paper ticket, which will be used to get on the plane. Feel free to ask
me anything!

I am continuing on from Portugal to France, then Italy, then Turkey, then back to USA. I will post more info on that soon!
Full Vaxxed from USA - just flew to Italy with layover in Amsterdam. Airline in USA checked my Italy EuPLF form, vax card, test, passport. Netherlands checked
passport and vax card. Florence airport checked nothing on arrival. I had all docs prepared however including travel/quarantine declaration for netherlands but
neither of those were looked at. Neither was the EuPLF when we landed in Florence.
 The U.S. is again a "red zone" since August 9 and was
 removed from the E.U. white list on August 30. Therefore, a test is
mandatory upon arrival and the traveler should remain in quarantine
until the negative result comes in.- Just a heads up for those considering a trip to Belgium. This is from ther consulate website in the US
Has anyone been to italy in past two weeks from canada. Are they accepting our Vaccination receipts at border, restaurants, sight seeing etc?
Hello, can someone confirm that a negative antigen (rapid) COVID test is acceptable for a traveler from US to Italy? I have seen conflicting information and we
leave tomorrow - thank you.
US -> Italy just reporting in it was pretty easy. Direct flight from ATL to Rome. Couldn't check in on my phone but everything was easy sailing, (the antigen test
worked fine) last flight just had a barrier and a desk where they confirmed your papers. Immigration didn't even stamp my passport.
Just got back from the lovely Portugal. Typing this up just in case it’s helpful for folks. My itinerary may seem redundant to some people since we fly non-rev.

We checked in to our Lufthansa IAH-FRA flight through the app but we had to see a ticket agent to be cleared for boarding/receive our boarding pass with the QR
code. Our flight wasn’t until 3:50pm, but we arrived IAH super early due to our originating flight, we had to exit airside to landslide to reach the ticketing area. FYI -
the ticket counters don’t open until 12-ish and the line was getting bigger and bigger prior to opening. We listed business and was able to use use the business
lane. The ticketing agent asked for our proof of vaccination to transit Germany which we provided our CDC cards for and he saw our connecting flight to Porto
(booked separately) and then also asked to see our corona tests, I assume to clear us for Portugal entry. We went to Walgreens the day before to get a rapid Abbot
Binax now test, which was free, quick, and acceptable.

Our seats were on the second floor on the 747. Mild inconvenience was having to pick up our rolling luggage to go up the narrow stairs. The flight was 30 minutes
late and arrived at 8:55am which was nerve wracking as our connecting flight to Porto began boarding at 8:45am. Thankfully we were the first ones out to go
through passport control. Control I believe looked at our CDC card and waved us through. Had to run to the gate and our boarding passes were ready for Porto -
we had to be put on waitlist since the flight was mostly full. Still made it though. No other documents necessary to exit the airport.

Porto was wonderful. We used our cdc cards for our hotel stay and restaurants but during the weekends some required a test despite the cdc card to sit indoors,
outdoors was still acceptable with no test though. We recommend getting a hotel closer to the middle of the city. If you’re closer to the river you have to go up super
super steep hills. You’ll definitely have nice legs after the trip. The food was incredible, nothing ground breaking but the quality of dishes and wine everywhere was
superb. We also recommend shelling out the money for a Douro wine tour if you guys have a slight interest in wine and port, it’s still super fun.

Took the train from Porto to Lisbon, booked online the day of and had many seats left available. They will ask to see your passport on the train. Had a great time in
Lisbon and Sintra. Same rules applied with cdc card and testing as Porto.

We tested for our flight to USA on Tuesday for our flight on Friday. We used the Abbot telemed test, very quick results, about 15-20 minutes total from start to end.
Our LIS-FRA was at 6:15am. We had to visit the check in counter for our boarding pass again and even though we arrived at 5am the Lufthansa line was LONG.
100+ individuals waiting to be checked in. We listed business once again and even that line was long and slow. There were only 2 lufthansa flights that morning
leaving around the same time and only 4 ticketing agents. I believe both flights were also fairly full. Even though there were still people in line by 6am both flights
were delayed to accommodate the check in fiasco. Ticketing agent only asked to see proof of vaccination to transit Germany. I would recommend getting to Lisbon
airport earlier than what you think if you still have to see the ticketing agent.

FRA-DEN was delayed but that’s life. The beauty of being in a huge airline hub is that they just replace the old plane with a new plane if repair took too long. Z gate
control only wanted to see our passport to stamp. At the gate, the agents asked EVERYONE to line up so they can check our negative test and only our negative
tests, they didn’t care about vaccination at all. They put a sticker on the back of the passport to indicate we we’re cleared. A350 was a smooth flight. One thing I
have to mention is that the movie and tv selection was very lacking on both long haul flights, I assume due to corona. I saw that there’s an app that can cast from
your phone to the screen. We didn’t see it until we were in the air, not sure what was castable. I totally forgot to print out the CDC attestation form but nobody asked
to see it when we landed. The flight attendant announced that some people may be randomly pulled to show their negative test but I didn’t see anybody doing that
when we landed.

All in all I recommend going to Portugal. Everyone wore masks inside and mostly outside. Also wore the mask correctly too, over the nose. Vaccination rate is very
high, 78% of the country vaxxxed as of now. People were very genuinely friendly, the food excellent, and the wine superb. We wouldn’t hesitate to go back again.
Book the flight now, good luck to everyone!
I am a filmmaker from the UK and I have found out that my feature film debut has been selected to have it's world premiere at the 28th Austin Film Festival. It's an
opportunity I really don't want to miss and I really need to be there to promote and market my movie. U.S. travel restrictions at the moment ban most people from
the UK from entering (unless it's for urgent reason- this is not sadly). They state that you can't have been in the UK (or any of the other barred countries) for 14 days
prior to your arrival in the USA. So, I've decided to book two weeks in Toronto (6th-21st of October) before flying to Austin on Thurs 28th October.
Does this sound like a reasonable plan? I have no idea how strictly the ban is being taken and whether there's a chance I'd be turned away at border control. If I've
proven I've been in Canada for two weeks, surely I've got nothing to worry about?
hi, sharing my experience here (as countless others have already) in the hopes that it helps someone else. i am a fully vaxxed Canadian and i just flew from YVR to
CDG (Paris), then from CDG to FCO (Rome).

both flights were with Air France which offers online check in. you get the boarding pass on your Air France app and you can just walk straight to the security
checkpoint and then to your departure gate.

at YVR departure gate I was asked to provide my proof of vaccination and my sworn statement of honor. as soon as I boarded the flight to CDG the flight attendants
started handing out forms that you have to complete during the flight and give back to them shortly before landing.

at CDG departure gate is where it gets interesting - I was slightly out of my negative antigen test's 72 hour window (by about six hours) but the Air France
employees didn't seem to notice or care, they just matched the name on the test results to my passport's name and made sure the piece of paper said NEGATIVE
somewhere. they also did not ask for DPLF or for my proof of vaccination ejther.
Flew Calgary to Amsterdam with WestJet and only the WestJet counter looked at my health declaration and vaccination documents. When I landed in Netherlands,
I handed the border agent my documents and they didn't even look at them. Masking was very loose in Amsterdam and we got made fun of a couple times for
wearing a mask. We took Thalys from ams to Paris and nobody looked at anything, we just walked on the train.

For French health pass, if you submit your files and don't get it, resubmit. I resubmitted mine on the train ride and got the QR code immediately.
I know a lot of people are sceptical that going to Sweden as a vaccinated American is as easy as flying to Denmark and taking a train, so here's a report: I took a
train from Denmark to Sweden and they didn't even bother checking ID on my car (though the signs all said to have passports ready). You can definitely get to
Sweden from Denmark just as the Swedish government says, no gotchas.
Anyone have experience flying with Air France recently? Their website says only surgical masks and FFP masks are allowed (no cloth masks). Do they enforce
this? Do they hand out surgical masks to those that don’t have them?

https://www.airfrance.us/US/en/common/page_flottante/information/faq-coronavirus.htm
Hi everyone just wanted to give my perspective. In the past 6 months I have been in Albania Montenegro Macedonia Croatia Hungary Portugal Spain and Italy with
my US vaccination card the only thing they are curious about is the one shot with Johnson and Johnson and it has never been a problem entering any of these
countries. If you want to take a test to be extra careful go ahead but so far just my cdc card has let travel freely no questions.
Well crap. I just read that the Netherlands are going to start requiring quarantine for US travelers beginning September 4 (tomorrow). We are leaving tomorrow for
Munich, then train to Austria, and the plan was to finish our trip in the Netherlands from September 13 - 19. Does anyone know if being in Germany and Austria
(which are NOT on the Netherlands' High Risk list) for September 5 - 13 (8 days, plus a few hours) would prevent this? What if we changed the trip around so we
didnt enter Amsterdam until September 16 (giving us a full 10 days of not being in the US)? I'm afraid to change our airport for the way home (currently AMS to
ORD), in case other countries follow suit :/ Anyone have any advice?
Hi, is anyone in Italy right now traveling with a CDC vaccination card? What is the process like when taking trains between cities? Is the CDC card accepted as the
Green Pass? I’m traveling to Rome in two weeks and taking the train to La Spezia then to Verona, Lake Garda and Milan. Will I have any issues traveling by train?
Are rapid antigen tests from CVS good for entry from the US into Italy? Has anyone had any issues or experience using them? I know PCR tests are the gold
standard but looks like the rapid antigens should be good too. I’m a fully vaccinated traveler
Update about American entering Netherlands from Germany:

My Berlin to Amsterdam train (Deutsch Bahn) got cancelled because of the public transport strike. I booked a ten hour flixbus that had several stops throughout
Germany and Netherlands. I was able to board the bus in Berlin with no issues, the flixbus employee glanced at my passport, didn't even ask for vaccination card.
There were no additional checks when entering Netherlands.
Flying to Italy from JFK tomorrow. Have CDC card, filled out passenger locator form, and have a negative molecular NAAT test. According to the Italian ministry of
health site any molecular test will work but Emirates seems to think only PCR tests are acceptable. Makes no sense a rapid antigen test would be accepted and not
a molecular NAAT.
Leaving to Italy from the US and just received my one shot J&J has anyone had issues with it just being the one shot? My concern is I don't think J&J is really used
over there so most people are looking for 2 shots on the card.
Just came back from a 12 day trip from Ontario, Canada to Italy. Wrote a general summary here:
[https://www.reddit.com/r/ItalyTravel/comments/pn75s3/trip\_report\_ontario\_canada\_to\_italy/]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/ItalyTravel/comments/pn75s3/trip_report_ontario_canada_to_italy/) but also happy to answer any specific questions!
Going to post a little summary of my trip to Europe, just got home last night, everything was mega smooth with zero issues.
Miami> Lisbon> Frankfurt, Rented a car to drive to Netherlands and Belgium, then back out the way we came.
8/31- 9/13

Before we left the states, we all were tested, filled out PLF for Portugal and Germany just in case even though it wasnt needed.


Upon check in at Miami, PLF for Portugal and tests were checked, everything else was normal. Layover in Portugal required a re security check, no German PLF
looked at. Land in Frankfurt and it was business as usual, go get the car and drive to Netherlands. Zero Control points, no PLF needed, arrive at Hotel, just show
passports and vacation begins. Almost no one wears a mask or even requires a mask in NL. It was very similar to America, though vaccinations are higher here so
they felt much more secure.


Fast forward to Belgium, Fill out PLF day before we leave, no issues at all. Check in at hotel, only checked Passports, also zero control points. Belgians seemed
more curious about America and our situation, we wear a mask everywhere as needed, they are very strict here. Even an outdoor bar was telling people to wear
one until seated.


Leave for Germany to take off, fill out Portugal PLF again, get a quick Antigen test at Frankfurt airport for 29 euro the night before departure. German restaurants,
hotels and bars all required vaccine cards to be viewed for entry. This was the first time anyone asked to see our cards, even at airport control or check-ins, was
kind of shocked out little they were needed.


Take off the next morning, almost a reverse of our entry to the EU. Very smooth check in and flights.


Hope this helps some! I understand things were evolving as we were there so I know there might be some changes now.
If it’s helpful for anyone, and as others have mentioned below, I was waiting on my French pass sanitaire application for 2 weeks with no word. I finally decided to
resubmit an application, which I did at 6AM today (during French office hours) and got a QR code back within 2 hours.

I went back and deleted my old application so they didn’t process it twice. Hope this helps!
What can I realistically do in France right now without a passe sanitaire? I put in an application but have yet to receive my QR code, and I leave tomorrow. I am fully
vaccinated and will be bringing my paper CDC certificate. How strict are they about letting people in the Louvre, Versailles, or similar attractions?
Chile appears to be attempting to reopen again on October 1st.
Just wanted to share experience with USA to Italy trip. We flew last Monday to Rome through Atlanta from nashville. We took a pcr swab test at cvs on Saturday
and actually got results back in about one day. I had a rapid test scheduled but was able to cancel it. We had to check in at airport and not online (delta) which was
a bit confusing because the baggage drop line said you needed a boarding pass which we still didn’t have. We had to have a gate agent check us in. They checked
our negative test, vax card and eu plf form. The negative test must be within 72 hours of your arrival to destination, which can be tricky and involves some careful
math with time changes. The agent who checked us in really pondered on if we were okay, which we were by a few hours at least. Once in Atlanta our paper work
was checked again as they had the boarding waiting area closed off so people could only go in and out at one spot. There was also a temperature check. Flight
was maybe 60% full. Once in Rome they just checked our passports, no checking of other paperwork. Our cdc cards have gotten us in everywhere a green pass is
needed, which is basically any ticketed attraction. Occasionally there is a temperature check. We’ve eaten outside most times so not had to show at restaurants.
Going to Florence on train tomorrow, so I can give an update if there’s anything odd about that. Most people don’t wear masks when walking outside, inside only
which is good because it is hot!!! But people keep saying how much less crowded it is than normal. We had reservations one night but were able to show up at
peak times to eat every other night at some great restaurants.

Hope this helps someone who was stressing like me before our trip!
Has anyone had success with the Binovax take home antigen tests for Entry into Italy? Or does it need to be an administered test, thanks.
Reporting on my experience in Prague and Germany in case useful to anyone (I'm a fully vaccinated Canadian from Ontario):

- flew from Toronto to Prague and the only time anyone asked for any Covid related documentation was as we were walking out of the Prague airport (guy at the
door just glanced at our negative test and let us through)
- spent 3 days in Prague and was never asked for negative test or vaccination certificate for any attractions, restaurants, bars, etc.
- once in Germany, people did start asking for vaccination certificates. No one ever had a problem with our Ontario vaccine receipts. Most people just glanced at
them.

Overall things seem pretty normal here. Lots of tourists and most things are open!
Hey everyone. Just took a trip to Switzerland, layover in Spain there and layover in London on the way back. On the way in just needed the QR code from the Spain
Travel Health to change flights. While in Switzerland just needed my CDC card to prove I was vaccinated to get into restaurants and museums. They understood
and just checked we had two shots. The way back though we needed a negative Covid test. Took it at the airport the day before leaving, no problem
Just off the plane from Chicago to Munich. Couple observations that may be helpful to travelers. Print your forms, even if you’ve uploaded them for your airline. We
had to show our German entry locator form three times, including to get into our gate and at immigration in Munich.

Also, Bavaria requires N95 or surgical masks. Our hotel has them available - but we got some strange looks on the train for our cloth masks.
Hahaha. Ok. For everyone who has been posting here wondering how the Netherlands deals with inter-EU flights for US travelers who’ve been in the EU less than
10 days - I have an update for you. Just off the plane from Vienna to AMS via Easy Jet. After 2 weeks of stress about this - our flight didn’t even have passport
control! I think we deplaned into the M gates at AMS and we went straight to baggage claim then exited. No desk, no stamp, nothing. I’m laughing in spite of myself.
Let me know what questions you have!
Everyone flying from US to all over Europe, meanwhile its been two years since I've been able to see my fiance in the US.

They gotta allow travel soon, this is getting ridiculous...
US citizen that just got in to France and staying in Paris. No one ever checked my Covid vaccination papers or my sworn “declaration”. So far have not had to use
passe sanitaire or show my vaccination card anywhere but haven’t done much except buying a SIM card and ordering take out at a few different places. Paris
seems to be up and running normally. Feel free to ask any questions.
This is oddly specific, but I have some at home COVID tests from eMed to take with us to Switzerland tomorrow. Do they have anything in them that would prevent
them from being in a carry on? (I.E. liquid). I can't find anything about that online.
I'm a little confused about the new requirements in Belgium.

I'm a US citizen, arrived in Ireland on August 29, supposed to go to Brussels on September 8. Back on August 13, the Belgian embassy stated that they would
accept the CDC card as vaccination proof: https://unitedstates.diplomatie.belgium.be/en/coronavirus-covid-19

However, as of September 1, the Belgian government states that non-EU vax proof will only be accepted under certain circumstances, listed here: https://www.info-
coronavirus.be/en/recognised-vaccins-and-certificates/

The CDC card doesn't meet all of the requirements, but it's not explicitly blocked, and the info on the embassy site says it's still accepted, though I'm sure they just
haven't updated yet. Does anyone have any additional info? Is this an incredibly convoluted way of saying that Americans are no longer allowed in?

UPDATE: I called the Belgian embassy in NY. They confirmed that the US is no longer on the "red countries on the white list" so*if you're vaccinated*, you will have
to get a test immediately after you arrive in Belgium, quarantine until you get the results (48 hours max), then get tested again on your 7th day, if you're still there.
They also confirmed that they will accept the CDC card.
I am fully vaccinated.. Any idea if the emed tests will be acceptable for entry into Italy under the new rules? I would think so because they accept antigen tests.
However the take home nature of the test makes me a bit nervous.
Thanks
Can someone tell me if I'm good to go for my travel to Italy on Sunday from Canada? I have proof of full vax, a rapid antigen test scheduled for 69 hours before
arrival in Italy and will fill out the locator form. Am I good? I've read mixed things about the test within 72 hours vs 48 hours and want to ensure a rapid antigen is
still the same as a regular antigen test, which is what is accepted. Thanks!

I'm traveling to Greece as a fully vaccinated US citizen. Does anyone know whether they will accept a digital photo of my CDC card, and/or documentation from the
pharmacy (CVS), as proof of vaccination? My card unfortunately was lost to theft.
Traveling to Italy mid-September from the US, and even though we're vaccinated the new mandates require a negative test as well. Our best option seems to be
Walgreens, but I was wondering if anyone could tell me if their rapid test counts for the requirement? The description of their testing is:

Rapid Diagnostic Test (ID NOW): The Rapid Point-of-Care (POC) - NAAT (ID NOW) test also detects genetic material of the virus. The test is performed on site with
results available within 24 hours.

And Italy requires:

Travelers arriving from or transiting through the U.S., Canada or Japan in the past 14 days must present a negative COVID-19 PCR or antigen test taken no more
than 72 hours before entry into Italy. This new requirement applies regardless of your vaccination or COVID-19 recovery status.


----
Since we have to take it within three days and leave on a Sunday, we have limited options for a PCR test that will get back to us in time. Not seeing any options for
an antigen test in my area either (Missouri). I saw that United (our airlines for the trip) partnered with some at-home tests, but if I order them I'm not sure they'd get
here in time.
Can't remember if asked here. Has anyone used the ABBOTT ID now covid test from Walgreens in the US to enter Canada? Did you run into any issues? How long
did you wait for results?
We have a trip to Italy planned for next month but are getting worried, mostly about the prospect of testing positive in Italy and having to stay there longer which
means missing a lot of work and $.
I know the above worries have been repeated over and over but not sure we will still go.

Anyone have any experience with any luck of changing basic economy on American airlines?
I know other airlines including delta have gone back to the waiver where you can change economy tickets, but american still has not.
We are thinking about braving the hold times one of these days and pleading our case but not sure if anyone else has done something similar when cancelling
plans
Is it possible to obtain the French Pass Sanitaire if you don't have flights to and from France? It asks for pictures of the tickets on the website. Was planning on
entering and leaving by land.
I’m supposed to be traveling to Netherlands at the end of the month for a business meeting. Does anyone know how often they update their restrictions? I’m
assuming I’m SOL on this trip but I’m holding out hope that we’ll be on the downtrend here in the US in a few weeks.
What is the process of checking for a negative test coming back to the US? Does the airline scan the bar code or do they just check if the test says negative?
US citizens (vaccinated) currently in Germany but supposed to head to Netherlands on 9/8. It’s unclear since we are coming from the EU if we need to quarantine
given we will have been in the US 8 days ago. Any idea?
Hello everyone, I need some help, I've been planning a trip to Sweden from 14 October - 28 October from Medellin, Colombia, the flight path is Medellin - Madrid -
Stockholm. I'm fully vaccinated (2 dose) with Pfizer and the information is not clear on whether I can enter Sweden or not. Can anyone give me more clear
information?
Hi everyone, so I have a flight back to the US from Amsterdam on the 17th. Currently in Italy. My original plan was to go to London for a few days and then spend a
night in Amsterdam before my flight. Looks like that’s not doable now with the UK as a high risk area? So do I have to fly to Amsterdam in the morning and just
transfer to my flight? Or can I arrive the evening before? My flight is at like 10am.
Can anyone comment on the situation in Austria? Fully vaxxed, coming from the US via AMS. My understanding is I can use the CDC vaccine certificate to gain
entry to places - and I do not need the EU passport or green pass. I am doing a rapid antigen test before my departure just in case and plan to bring a few at home
tests to update my results during my travels. I also have my antibody results.
What are all the steps I can take to make sure that I have a negative pre-flight PCR test before November 1st?

Luckily I'm in Canada so likelihood of contracting isn't as bad as elsewhere. I plan on going extreme mode starting the 15th of October with being covid safe. My
biggest worry is my retail job. I already mask up and wash hands regularly, but wondering what else should be done.
[deleted]
Currently traveling in Switzerland and was told my CDC card (vaccination record in US) o longer worked. Does anyone succeed in transferring CDC card into
Switzerland vaccination certificate? Thanks!
Hello everyone
I will soon be flying to Denmark, the original plan was to briefly visit some friends and then take a train to Sweden the same day.
Recently Sweden has barred entry for US citizens though.
Technically, coming from Denmark, [I should still be allowed to enter](https://polisen.se/en/the-swedish-police/the-coronavirus-and-the-swedish-police/travel-to-and-
from-sweden/).
Is there any US citizen here who passed the border through train with no issues? The rules look clear to me but it'd give me some peace of mind knowing that
everything will be fine
Has anyone used the EU Digital COVID Certificate as Proof of Vaccination when entering Canada as a fully-vaccinated traveler?

I'm heading there next month and I'm not sure if it's recognized. I also have the option of bringing a document signed by my physician who administered the
vaccines. Not sure which one would be more accepted.
Traveling to Portugal from the US in October. Americans, what has your experience been?

Do they accept the digital covid certificate from your state or the CDC card? Or do you need to be tested every few days to be allowed into restaurants and hotels?

Any other tips or advice? The internet is lacking in guidance.
Anyone know how strict Italy is with the antigen swab test? Deciding whether to get self-test with app certification or getting a traditional antigen test from a clinic.
The self-test BinaxNOW is FDA approved and acceptable by most airlines.
How many people are on international flights these days? I’m flying on Singapore air tomorrow and I don’t know what to expect - last year I flew from London to
New Zealand and there were only about ten people on the plane.
Italy requires an antigen test result from a swab for entry from the United States at moment. The details don't seem to go beyond that. Has anyone used the
proctored home tests? The standard kit for the Optum/Binax comes with two tests, and it'd be awesome if I could use one for entering Italy (i know they're perfectly
fine for coming back).
Can you give me suggestions what countries to travel which have low covid restrictions? (I am vaccinated and from Europe)

I just came back from a trip in Albania. There nobody gave a fuck about covid. And the weather was really warm.

Any suggestions for non lockdown travel destinations in december (maybe new year), january or february?
**Booster Shot within 14 days Travel to Schengen zone - Dose 1 & 2 Completed in May**

We have a trip to Greece planned in a day. Our second dose Covid-19 Pfizer vaccine shot was in March, and in May we visited Greece using our “COVID-19
Vaccination Card” with the first and second doses complete. No Problems, know the drill - PCR test for transfer, Greek PLF, etc.



When the Pfizer booster shot became available in Oregon Saturday (yesterday), we went to the pharmacy and received the shot. Now our vaccine card has a third
entry “Other” as ‘Pfizer FF88xx date location.’ Didn’t think about possible travel ramifications.



Does anyone have any thoughts about entry into Greece (eu Schengen zone) with both doses listed completed in March, and a third 'other' Pfizer within 14 days of
entry?



Due to travel to the airport, I will have spotty access to Reddit. I will revisit this post to share once I have an official determination. We should be in Greece on
Tuesday.

Thanks in advance.
Just landed in Copenhagen and am heading to Stockholm in the next couple hours. Very easy process to show proof of vaccination. Added maybe 30 seconds to
normal customs check. I know I was freaking out about it as early as yesterday, but if you are vaccinated it’s a quick process. Happy travels!
Just flew into to Belgium from the US earlier today no problem. My flight was United Airlines from ORD->BRU.

I prepared my documents:

* Passenger Locator Form
* CDC Vaccination Card
* Passport
* Negative Covid-19 Test (PCR)

In filling out the PLF I checked both boxes for "Vaccination Certificate" and "Negative Covid Test Certificate". To my knowledge, the negative Covid-19 test was not
needed. This was simply a backup. The most difficult part of the trip was checking in at the gate before departure to Brussels. United checked all documents before
boarding. For me that included the PLF, CDC Vaccination Card and Passport. I saw a few people being turned around here or given PLF forms to fill out in the
airport.
I would suggest having paper copies of everything. That includes a paper copy of your filled PLF ready. I was able to show my phone to the United employee with
the electronically filled PLF but it was a hassle. They almost made me fill out a new one on the spot.
In BRU customs was a breeze. A simple check of my passport was all they needed to allow entry.

No Testing or Quarantine required. CDC Vaccination Card alone was sufficient.

Hope this helps give some confidence to people flying in.

**IMPORTANT EDIT:**
It appears that Belgium has just removed the US from it's white-list. The above occurred before this change. According to the website, if you are vaccinated, it looks
like quarantine is required until a negative test result is acquired after testing on day 1-2 of your trip. https://www.info-coronavirus.be/en/faq/#006. Frustratingly, it
seems these requirements are constantly changing.
Update from France:
We are being asked for our CDCs at most restaurants and a few have asked for ID. Very few shops have asked for them. We have not met any restrictions from
places and everything is open. Big cities have been stricter than small cities. Masks are required indoors.

We flew LAX--CPG--CDG and did not need a Covid test to board nor to go into Copenhagen but that changes often. BTW, our plane was mostly empty.

Heading to Spain via land and will provide an update from there.

We're VERY happy we didn't cancel our trip. There have been American/UK tourists everywhere we've been. Be safe and use your discretion!

Edit: I requested Passe Sanitaire QR codes mid-Aug and my SO just got his yesterday. Still waiting on mine but CDC cards working fine so not worried. I point out
"Pfizer" on my card and they recognize that.

Edit 2: Drove into Geneva from France with no issues. No one asked for our cards there.
I’m currently in Germany and planning to travel to Amsterdam via train. Called the Dutch travel ministry and the only thing they asked me was about vaccination
status
For the EU Digital Passport form, how important is it to have the correct seat number? It says that field is required, but I'm having trouble checking in online and
getting that information prior to my flight.
We’re supposed to go to a Italy in 10 days from the US, both of us are fully vaccinated. But, I’m now paranoid about possible breakthrough transmissions resulting
in a positive test for our US return and having to stay in Italy for the 10-day quarantine. I’m not sure we can get our hotels to refund our stays if we cancel, but I’m
torn. I really want to go, but I don’t know if I can justify the risk (or what the risk actually is).
US citizen with a question about the new Italy restrictions. I'm flying to Spain on Monday (the 6th) and then going to Italy on the 25th. I'm wondering if I will need to
take a test to enter Italy from Spain? Based on the restrictions announced, it sounded like only if you had been in the US in the past 14 days would you need to
show a negative test, but I'm unclear whether I need to regardless as an American.
Travel to France on Sept 10th, then to Switzerland for the weekend and back into France, then home to the US. Can anyone let me know if I’m missing any COVID
paperwork based on their experience? I’ve read all the requirements but they keep changing and don’t want to miss something I might need

US CDC Vax card​

Pass Sanitaire with CDC card converted (on a side note they accidentally changed my vaccination year from 2021 to 2004 - will this be an issue? It’s clearly a typo)

French Declaration of no COVID symptoms or exposure

Monitored Antigen test for the return home
What are the current rules for transiting through Germany? I’m an American citizen but have been in Poland for the summer and will be returning to the U.S. with a
transit through Germany
So I have a trip planned to Paris and Amsterdam coming from the US(fully vaccinated with Pfizer), so I was wondering if there would be any issues traveling
between France and Netherlands? Do I need a covid test going to Amsterdam and coming back to France?
Hello all, im double vaccinated and heading to Italy next week. In order to fly you need to take a PCR or rapid antigen 48 hours before arrival - does anyone know
whether the rapid antigen test can be taken at home or if it has to be recorded?
Let me know how it goes and good luck!
Does anyone know what you should do if you lose your CDC card while traveling abroad?
Is the US CDC pass acceptable proof of vaccination to enter Denmark? My fiancé and I fully vaccinated have a wedding set in Copenhagen for sept. 22 and I’m
from the United States who was just taken off the yellow list. I’m not sure if it is accepted if not it will prevent me from being able to enter the country and I haven’t
found many reseources on it
I’m leaving from the US to Spain and my stop is in Amsterdam. Do I need to provide any form, covid test, etc. for my stop?
I’ve heard they are checking for negative COVID tests before you take off from the US to Italy but does anyone know if they are checking them when you land in
Italy?
Hi! US citizen traveling to France but via Istanbul layover. Fully Vaccinated here but not sure about that Istanbul to France leg. Do I need to get a PCR test to enter
France from Istanbul, if I’m just transiting through Istanbul? Thanks!
German citizen fully vaccinated travelling to Spain with 23 hours of stay. Afterwards I'm travelling to England where a PCR test is required if you come from Spain.
Is there a transit time where no test is required or is it mandatory to take a test and wait for the result on the airport?
I just got a message there’s a mandatory 10 day quarantine for non-eu citizens as of today for Amsterdam and my plane leaves tonight. I’m an American and will be
coming from a short layover in Iceland. I don’t know what to do
Hi all. I am currently living in Sweden, and had some friends planning trips from the US to visit in the next couple of months. My friends, who are vaccinated,
planned to fly into Copenhagen airport and take the Öresundståg from the airport over to where I live. Given the new restrictions, does this seem like a viable plan
still?
Hello, we are fully vaccinated Americans and driving into Canada from the US. I understand the entry to getting into Canada is that we have to upload to ArriveCAN
and also need a negative test 72 hours prior to arrival. However, I'm not sure if we need another test 72 hours prior to returning to the US or can we just re-enter?
Thanks in advance.
Fully vaccinated (Pfizer) Canadian heading to Spain next month via France. It seems like I'm all set to get into Spain with the health pass form and my proof of
vaccination, but just wondering what it's like in the cities. Are restaurants and museums requiring a passport? Will my proof of vaccination from Canada suffice or
will I need an app/qr code?
Can anyone confirm how this works? I’m from the US and will be traveling to Spain then the UK fully vaxxed. I understand I will not need to quarantine but will need
a day 2 test. If arrival day is day 0, am I allowed to leave the hotel and move about on day 1??
Looking for first-hand experience for US travelers traveling from an EU country into Netherlands since 9/4. Our flight is coming up Monday 9/13 - and I’m 95-% sure
we’ll be fine to enter, but would love to hear firsthand that someone else has successfully flown in. Saw the reports of successful train/bus trips from Germany to
Amsterdam.
I'm travelling to Sweden next week. Would an RTK-antigen test be okay or do I need a RT-PCR test? One needs to show a negative covid test result taken not
more than 48 hours before arrival. My flight is 17 hours long and PCR test takes 24 hours to arrive in my area.
So if I take the PCR test a day before the flight it would have passed the 48 hours mark once I arrive in Sweden. Antigen test results are quick but I hear from some
people that Antigen test aren't accepted everywhere. I just don't want to take any risks during the trip which can create problems. Any suggestions?
Kinda dumb question but for checking vaccination status I only have a CDC card from my second shot not my first. I also have a certificate from my states health
board with the relevant information with the two shots.

Will I face any issues in Europe?

Thank you.
Trip to Spain and Turkey at the end of October has been booked. Just gotta hope they don't implement any huge restrictions now
Have any Americans traveled to Europe with a vaccination card that does not have a CDC logo on it?
Hello all! Hoping someone can help here.

I had plans to visit Amsterdam this upcoming Tuesday for 5 days and then board an 8-day river boat cruise down to Switzerland. My cruise line just informed us that
we can only be in Amsterdam for 12 hours before boarding. The Netherlands has issued a mandatory quarantine for all visitors in high risk areas.

This new update has now made our 5 days in Amsterdam pointless due to the quarantine. My family and I want to fly to Paris instead then take a train to
Amsterdam the day our cruise leaves.

We are all vaccinated and have been doing our own quarantine leading up to our trip. My question is regarding the French health pass. We are going to apply
online for it after we switch our flights. Seeing others have had difficulties, I’m not sure if we will be able to board a train to Amsterdam. Does anyone have any
experience with this? Will our cdc cards work? I have a QR code for my vaccinate proof as well. Or do we have to test negative before boarding the train? Thank
you for any insight.
Headed to London in a few weeks. For my return to the US, wondering if it’s better to book a test in advance or if I can just drop in to a pharmacy for a rapid?
Hello!

I am traveling from the US to Germany with a layover flight in Portugal. While Germany as of right now does not require of me a negative COVID-19 test result (I'm
fully vaccinated), Portugal does. Do I need to get a COVID-19 test for Portugal despite only being in the airport for a couple hours? Struggling to find a straight
forward answer on Google- I'm assuming I do need the test- I am just hoping to get clarity so I can avoid paying 175 dollars if possible. Thank you all
If I am a US citizen but have been in EU for a month, do I still need a covid test to enter Italy? Specifically will be traveling by train from Switzerland to Italy, and was
in France/Spain since August 1st. I guess my worry is if they care about where I've been or place of residence/origin/citizenship. Do I need to prove to them where
I've been?
In terms of a destination that has beaches & awesome foodie spots (good restaurants, street food etc.), and has a good COVID/Safety/Weather factor, if you had to
pick between Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Guyana and Brazil, where are you going? I'm thinking Colombia, since they've got their COVID a bit more under control,
and Cartagena looks like a nice beach place, and places like Bogota/Medellin look fun to visit for food and architecture. But maybe I'm overlooking Brazil or one of
the other spots.

Those are the only open spots in South America for me as a Canadian, and I'd like to take a 3 week vacation at Christmas to escape the snow.

Has anyone cleared immigration at CPH lately? I’ve got a flight out on a separate ticket 3.5 hours after landing. That should be plenty of time but wanted to double
check.
Personal info regarding getting CDC card converted to pass sanitaire. I submitted my and my girlfriends application on august 26 (or 27? I forget exactly). We got
our QR code about an hour apart on September 10th.
I am heading to Italy from the US in early October and the flights I'm looking at have a 2hr 55m layover at CDG in Paris on the way there and a 1hr 50m layover on
the way back. I am having a hard time understanding exactly what I need to have with me/what documents I will need to provide (other than a passport of course)
since I am not planning on staying in France, but just have the two layovers. I keep finding scattered information about covid passes, statements of honor, providing
a compelling reason for travel, airport transit visas, attestations etc. and I am hoping someone can provide a clear answer as to what I will need.
I have had a little look through the thread but have not seen a question regarding the 10 day rule on quarantining in a hotel if you have been through a red list
country in the past 10 days.

Our plan is to visit family in Brazil flying from the UK which requires no quarantine on the Brazilian side. Flying back, however, is more tricky as Brazil is a red list
country.

My question is, if we spent 10 days in Portugal (no quarantine required flying from Brazil) then flew to the UK would we need to quarantine in a hotel still?

Cheers!
For a fully vaccinated U.S. citizen traveling in European countries that are not requiring Covid tests for fully vaccinated people, do you just show your U.S. issued
vaccination card?

Also, is there a widely accepted app in Europe that can be used to show your vaccination status and Covid test results for countries requiring Covid tests?

Any Covid-related tips from U.S. citizens traveling in Spain, France, Switzerland, and the UK would be greatly appreciated. Thank you!!
If a country has a quarantine policy for some countries (high-risk) but not for others (low-risk), would a traveler to that destination country coming from a low-risk
country still have to abide by the high-risk country quarantine if they originally came from the high-risk country and had citizenship there? Does this depend on the
amount of days they were at the low-risk country/ies first? I would imagine countries would monitor for people flying through another country to avoid quarantine
and have some requirements around this, and at the same time, it wouldn't be fair for people if they were in the "in-between" country for long enough.

edit: I'm particularly interested in the NL as the destination country?
I'm a Canadian interested in travelling to Norway. If I understand correctly I need an EUDCC to enter. I have a COVID passport issued to me for the province of
Quebec, but it doesn't appear to be connected to the EUDCC. Has anyone successfully visited Norway from Canada who could explain how they did it? If I were to
obtain an EUDCC from a country I can "easily" visit, such are Ireland or Germany, could I then travel to Norway from there without issue? Thanks!
How do you find a place to get covid test before flying back home in a another country? Was thinking of going to Portugal but Im stressed about not finding a testing
place to fly back home.
Has there been any clues that the Canada to US border for non-US citizens will open up come September 21st? Appreciate if anyone can help
Thanks to reading everyone's experiences here in this forum my husband and I finally booked a trip to Portugal! We've been so nervous about traveling but feel
much better now it's booked. Happy to share my experiences here.

One good idea I read about yesterday is to go to a copy store and make a color photocopy of your CDC card and have it laminated. That way you can keep it in
your pocket and not worry about damaging/losing the original.

Full blog here:

[https://blog.ricksteves.com/cameron/2021/09/plan-pack-prepare-pandemic-europe/](https://blog.ricksteves.com/cameron/2021/09/plan-pack-prepare-pandemic-
europe/)
Fully vaxxed American heading to Ireland in October and I just want a confirmation on what I will need to get in to Ireland/get back to the States.

To enter Ireland: Proof of vaccination (I assume my vaccination card is fine) and to fill out the online mandatory passenger locator form.

To get back to the US - negative COVID test and the signed mandatory travel attestation form.

Anything else I'm missing?
So I have a question. I applied for the health pass since I’m going to Paris and I just got that email with my QR code today(yay!) so I was curious how long that’s
valid?
Have things been going smoothly for Americans in Italy using their CDC card as proof of vaccine? Is there anything I should know? Going in about 2 weeks.
Hello reddit,



So I've decided to spend my days off in the UK between along with my girlfriend between the 21st and 24th of this month. We've already booked a covid test pre-
flight, to show at the moment we arrive at the airport. We have also looked at the requirements and aparently you have to do another test until the 2 days after
arrival. So if we're arriving on the 21st, we have to get that second test done until the 23rd, if i'm not mistaken.



So my questions are: what happens if you do not take that second test? I'm not saying we're simply going to ignore the rules. But lets imagine we were leaving on
the 22nd instead of 24th, and just spend one night there. Would we still have to get that second test done? Do they check if we have done that test at the airport
before departure?



What could happend to us if we do not do that second test? We do not require one to return to our home country, because we are both fully vaccinated. It seems a
bit pointless to do 2 different tests with 5 days apart, but i'm guessing thats changing on october 4th.



If we absolutely have to do the second test, which providers do you recommend? I'm asking this because we would like to spend as less as possible, and we've
looked through the list of acceptable providers and it's a bit confusing. We are planning on going to the southwest of England.



Thanks in advance!
Four fully vacanated Irish people hoping to travel to transylvania this December. We had to cancel last year due to covid. Would love to go this year ,but ireland is
on the red list for going to romaina. Should we go are not. Any thoughts.
I googled “best masks for travel” (and air travel) and many options came up.

Do you have a favorite mask, one that is on the thicker side perhaps? Is there anything to the masks that have the copper threads or is that just a gimmick?

So yeah just looking for mask recommendations for travel, I want something a bit sturdier than my regular cotton mask I wear around town
Just thought I'd add my experiences from my most recent trip to Poland and Slovenia. For reference, I'm a fully vaxxed Canadian (2 Pfizer doses in Ontario so I
only had print outs of the Ontario Health receipts)

9/3 - I flew from Toronto direct to Warsaw. I was asked to show my vax receipts in Toronto and then again in Warsaw. I also had to fill out a PLF on the plane which
the fight attendants collected. Because I was fully vaxxed, no quarantine was required. Mask wearing around Poland is more like a suggestion - I'd say maybe 50%
of people were wearing them inside and most people had them under their nose.

9/13 - I flew to Ljubljana via Zurich. My vax receipts were checked in Krakow as well as Ljubljana. I also filled out the online PFL for Switzerland because it's
required for transit passengers as well but no one looked at it. Flight attendants on the flight into Slovenia handed out a PLF on the plane but I had filled it out
online and showed them I had the QR code for it. No one asked to see it after that. The border officer in Ljubljana was very confused by my vaccine receipts haha -
I don't think he even looked at my passport but studied my receipts hard and eventually was like "ah - first dose! Second dose! It's good!". Slovenia implemented a
vaccine passport system for restaurants/attractions/stores and, for the most part, I was only asked to confirm I had a "covid certification" on me in case an inspector
came around to check - a couple people confirmed that proof of vaccination would be sufficient. I only actually had to show my vaccination in a McDonald's and,
weirdly, at the gas station to pay for gas. Mask wearing was much better in Slovenia compared to Poland.

9/17 - Flew home to Toronto via Warsaw. I needed a PCR test within 72 hours of departure which was checked in Ljubljana and then again as we were boarding to
plane in Warsaw. That took forever since there were only 2 people checking and I did see a few people denied boarding for whatever reason. I had filled out my info
in the ArriveCAN app but I have Nexus so no one asked to see it.

I think that basically covers it!
OK, I've seen different answers on this. Does anybody know if the monitored (from eMed) Binaxnow tests are acceptable for entry into UK (landside transfer due to
seperate booked tickets on to Germany) and Italy? We had planned to take one of the tests before departure for the UK, no testing seems to be required if
vaccinated for Germany, and then were going to take another of the monitored tests before leaving for Italy from Germany. Thoughts?
My husband and I are both American and both vaccinated. We’re going to Spain and Morocco. From what I’ve heard, Spain is doing well and proof of vaccination is
all you need. Does anyone have any current info on Morocco? We’re wondering if we’ll need to cancel that part of the trip and spend the rest of the time in Spain.
Italy update: i had a test 72 hours before departure (this was wrong, it’s arrival), plf, and cdc card. I made it through the gate but I wouldn’t risk it if I were you. The
lady checking us in was unfamiliar with Italy’s requirements.

Here in Italy: cdc card at museums only, masks everywhere indoors.

Edit: in Venice, Florence, Siena and Milan so far.
Are vaccinated foreign travelers to the EU able to get the EU COVID passport? I would prefer to take that instead of my CDC card if possible, but I can't seem to
find any instructions on how to do this.

My wife and I are vaccinated US citizens and we will be traveling to Italy and France next month with connections in Switzerland and Germany.
Flying to Italy later this week from US. Just got my rapid test back, and there’s no QR code on it. Will this be problematic? Or does the piece of paper alone work?
Traveling to Portugal Oct 6. Below is what is stated in order to enter the country, based on the below do i need to take a Covid test to enter if I am vaccinated and
show proof of my vaccination card?

*RT-PCR Test (or similar NAAT test) - 72h before boarding, or Rapid Antigen Test - 48h before boarding, or a valid EU Digital COVID Certificate,* ***or a valid
Vaccination or recovery certificate issued by a third country, under reciprocal conditions.***

&#x200B;

The wording on the bolded italics is where im a bit confused "A certificate of vaccination issued by a third country", what does this mean? What does "under
reciprocal conditions" mean (is this the US)?
have you all made contingency plans (travel insurance? idk) in case test to re enter the US is positive?

I'm fully vaccinated so the odds are low... but paying out of pocket for a new flight, hotel for 10 days, and missing work would blow. Or is this just kind of the built in
risk of traveling these days
Realized my passport is in my maiden name but my COVID test and vaccination record will be in my married name. Traveling from Canada to USA. Any issues if I
just bring my marriage certificate too? Thanks
Has anybody have success getting a French Sanitary Pass converted from their CDC vaccinated card? I'm traveling to France next week and I have applied to
convert my CDC vaccination card to a French sanitary pass on the demarches'simplifiees website, as instructed. But I have no received any updates at all. I even
tried emailing them and calling them.
These questions are for vaccinated US travelers.

Has anyone from the US recently been to one of those countries that say “vaccinated people can enter without a PCR test” such as italy, germany, france, greece,
etc

Is it really simple as that? do the airlines from the US ask you for anything when you are at the airport here in the US? or is there something I should be aware
about before booking a trip to one of these countries without a PCR test.
[deleted]
Does anyone have any experience with the Trawick International Safe Travels Voyager plan for travel insurance? It seems to be pretty popular because it
specifically lists coverage for potential quarantine but I have a doubt.

If I take a COVID test at the airport before returning to the US and it is positive and I have to quarantine, I will be quarantining past the scheduled return date of the
policy which is technically when the policy ends. I'm trying to figure out if it gets extended to pay for your accommodation past your original scheduled return date.

I talked with someone at Trawick and they said that it is good for 14 days ($2000/$150 per day), but they couldn't point to any language in the certificate that
explicitly states that you are covered past the scheduled return date.

For comparison, I looked at Tinleg, and their policy specifically states your coverage will be extended for 7 days or until you return home, whichever comes first.

Anyone have any thoughts? I'm just really trying to make sure I have a contingency plan in case I test positive.
Trying to figure out the requirements to enter Italy right now. I'm a US citizen but will be entering through Austria. I haven't been in the US in the last 14 days.

I'm not sure if I have to take a PCR /antigen test to enter or not. I'm also leaving to the US in a week or so so I'm trying to optimize takin 1 vs. 2 tests.

The way Re-Open EU and the Italian ministry make it seem like I don't need a test to enter but it's not crystal clear.

I'm confused because I might not be in an area that has access to rapid testing.
So I'll be traveling from the US to the UK from Oct 8 - 15. I know that I'll still have to do the Day 2 covid test when I arrive. Where I'm having issues is finding a
location that I can get tested for my flight back to the UK. Does anyone know of any reliable services that will have my results back in time for my flight back to the
US?
I guess I might just be overly cautious because I'm taking 2 test in the US just in case one won't get my results in time. ​♀️
How are you determining what places to book vacations given the uncertainty? are there certain countries right now that have high vaccination rates but are also
back to normal?
Travelling from Ontario Canada to Prague, Czech Republic question - Does anybody know if there will be a problem with them recognizing our Ontario Ministry of
Health Proof of Vaccination? Apparently Canada is currently not on the list of acceptable vaccine certificates, and the trip is already booked… would anybody
know? Thanks in advance
Question for those who have used a Abbott BinaxNOW self-test to re enter the US:

If I buy the two pack, can I use one and my wife create an eMed/Navica account to use the other one? Or is it one account per sale? Thanks -
Update from 10 days in Portugal as two fully vaccinated Americans.

3 days in Porto, 3 days in Lagos, 4 days in Lisbon.

I was never asked for a vaccination card or any documents after leaving JFK airport where all of the paperwork was required. Never for a single restaurant, hotel, or
museum were we asked for our vaccination cards.

I will say that traveling right now as an American is not for the faint of heart. Underlying your trip, if you’re like me, is always the thought/anxiety of your Covid test
will possibly be positive and your trip will undergo a serious revision. Our hotel organized our PCR test, it was 75€, and the results were available 10 hours later. It’s
a s a sucky part of traveling now but just something we have to live with now if we’re going to live our lives as vaccinated people. It is odd to me though considering
I left a city of 54% vaccination for a country of ~90% vaccination rate with mandatory indoor masks, but such is life
Has anyone else having issues getting the French covid certificate/QR code? When I try to upload files I keep getting an error message that says, "The file could
not be sent. Check your internet connection, then try again." My internet connection is fine. Using a different web browser didn't fix the issue.

Also approximately how long has it been taking for people to get their QR code?
I leave for Paris Friday. United emailed me and let me know I needed a negative test, but I’ve read and reread the requirements into France, and all I need is my
proof of vaccine. Anybody have experience with this?
Where are some smarter places to travel right now? I'm from the US, I know national parks and whatnot are completely swamped. I'll probably take 5 days off of
work, so I can plan that around two weekends and have a lot of time, but I'm so torn because so many places are swamped or not allowing international travel right
now.
Just returned from Germany, France and the Netherlands and had no issues entering with a double Vax record
Just got into Rome. Quick passport stamp and out the door. No cdc or test check.
Am I crazy for still holding onto my South Africa trip this November ? This is our 4th attempt and no refund anyways. Can’t postpone any longer with our schedules.
I'm an American flying to visit a friend in Germany next week. Right now the US is on the "high risk" list, and it looks like Germany updates its covid risk list every
Sunday. My flight departs next Saturday (the 11th) but arrives on Sunday (the 12th). With cases getting worse here, it's possible the US could be moved to the
"virus variant" list by the 12th, which would require a 14 day quarantine despite full vaccination and would effectively make the trip pointless. Watching the
Netherlands suddenly upheave its covid travel restrictions (getting rid of the "where there is a variant of concern" qualification for "very high risk" nations) and
making Americans go under quarantine starting tomorrow makes me worry about other EU countries soon following suit. Any other travelers sharing this concern or
am I overreacting?
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) provides an up to date list of COVID restrictions and requirements for every country in the world. I highly advise
reviewing it prior to traveling as it has saved me serval headaches on figuring out what documents I needed and when tests were required.
https://www.iatatravelcentre.com/world.php
My wife and I currently have a trip booked to go from the US to Portugal the first week in December. The current plan is to arrive in Lisbon and splint 7 days evenly
between Lisbon and Porto. I am looking to get more of an understanding on the feel/vibe of how COVID as well as COVID restrictions are affecting daily life. Is
there a sense this is moving in the right direction or going backwards in Portugal… the outside perspective I’m getting is it may be getting worse. I am aware of the
recent restrictions put in place in the EU which didn’t seem to really affect Portugal’s already existing requirements (Negative test going in and negative test
Coming home).

We have the ability to change our plans so I don’t want to force it if we won’t get to experience Portugal as it deserves to be! We have been dreaming of this well
before covid shut the world down, so any help is appreciated!

Note: our style of travel is eating our way through a country, food tours, bumming through neighborhoods, etc.
Does Ryanair require a covid test for fully vaccinated even if the country I'm going too doesn't require one?
Has anyone had success using one of the take home test kits and getting it covered by insurance?

Or has anyone tried to get their test to fly back covered by insurance?
[deleted]
COVID rapid antigen home test kits are way cheaper and easier to find in Europe than in the US right now.

If I buy like 20 in Europe and bring them home in my luggage, will this cause problems when I try to re-enter the US?

(I'm a US citizen, and these would be for personal use, not sale.)
I've asked this in a couple of places and come up empty, but I figure people here will have an answer or informed speculation. Why does the US continue to block
direct travel from Schengen/UK to the US for vaccinated persons? I've been trying to wrap my head around the logic of this and I don't understand it.
If you are just a tourist, with no other reason to go Denmark is a way to get into Sweden correct?

The rules on the website are all really confusing, with so many exceptions and conditions.

Can anyone who has actually gone confirm that this is valid and I won't get stopped on questioned at the border?

EDIT:

Sorry, this is me going from London flying to Copenhagen and then crossing into Malmo the next day. Up to Gotheberg and then over to Stockholm, then back to
London straight from Stockholm.

As I researched I think the only thing I need is proof of neg test to reenter the UK right?
My wife and I have the following travel coming up:

* Sep 24: US to France
* Sep 28: France to Portugal
* Oct 5: Portugal to Spain
* Oct 10: Spain to US

We have both just received the French Health Pass which is a QR code that says EU Digital COVID Certificate at the top. I hadn't realized that the French Health
Pass for non-EU citizens was equivalent to the EU Digital COVID Certificate. With this pass, just to confirm, my question is:

**Do we still need to get tested before going to Portugal or will our French Health Pass QR code suffice?**
Was supposed to be returning from my dream Italian vacation this morning! Thanks to COVID it never happened. Trying to get up the heart to reschedule it in the
future but I think it may be a sign that the trip wasnt meant to be.
To All Americans and Canadians! Quick Heads up to all those thinking of going to Switzerland, move that now into the avoid category for the time being!

Effective September 13th:
Immediate action, as of Sep 13, 2021
Here the possibilities for our Non-European guests for the transitory period as of Sep 13, 2021:
Repeated testing: we are unable to avoid repeated testing for our guests, please find an overview of available testing sites here.

They will no longer accept your vaccination proof anymore. This is required to do everything from Eat at a Restaurant to go to a Museum or see a Movie! You will
be required to take a test every 3 days you are in the country! Speak with your dollars and go elsewhere for the timebeing
Hi All! My boyfriend and I had an incredible trip planned to Italy and Greece in late September, but two of our Italy flights have been cancelled unexpectedly and we
are now seriously rethinking whether to go with the surge in the Delta variant. We are both vaccinated and plan to self-isolate for 2 weeks proceeding our departure
date regardless. We have narrowed our options down to 3 different trips and I wanted to get some external perspectives on how to weigh the risk of potentially
testing positive for COVID and having to quarantine in a foreign country with the reward of getting to go on a magical and relaxing vacation that we have been
looking forward to for 2 years at this point.
Here are the options:
Forego Italy and just go to just Greece, but forgo our original plans to go to the heavily touristed places and opt for islands that have few to no COVID cases. Of
course we would still have to fly through Athens and take ferries, but overall I think we would be spending the vast majority of our time outdoors with just the two of
us.
Go to an all-inclusive resort in the Maldives where we would be on the resort's private island. Again, we would encounter people in air travel, but once we got to the
resort we would really be able to isolate and keep to ourselves while enjoying the beautiful scenery. But again, if we tested positive coming back it would be a
massive inconvenience.
Go somewhere in the US and avoid all of this craziness. Open to suggestions as to where...
Would love to hear some other perspectives! I have really psyched myself out and don't know if I am just being overly anxious about the whole thing.
For anyone that has been to Italy recently… the 72 hours for a test, do they account for the time difference? Trying to figure out when to fit in a test in the next 2
days. If I got it today it’d be like 70 hours but obviously would be over 72 on paper due to the time change.
I'm looking at going to France in November (American, fully vaccinated) but with the EU taking the US of the safe travel list I'm a little worried.

Any idea if France will stay open for US travelers ?
What's the latest on SE Asian countries?
Does anyone think lockdowns are coming this winter?

Edit: Why the downvotes..? It was an honest question lmao
I am leaving from the US to Prague via Amsterdam on Saturday and returning September 19 from Barcelona via Amsterdam. I'm also hoping to visit Poland for 5
days between these places. Does anyone know of any recent changes to restrictions for Americans visitors to these countries and transiting through Netherlands?

I am fully vaccinated as of the beginning of April.
Hello! I am a Canadian with Mixed vaccines. One Covishield and one Moderna. I am trying to plan a trip for December and want to know what countries I am
allowed to visit with Covishield produced in India as well as mixed vaccines. Does anyone know? I have been trying to find info online but I have a double whammy
of bad for travelling regarding vaccines so I have not been able to find any lists regarding when you have both of those what countries will take you. Please help!
Way long over due! This is the right move
Our daughter will be able to meet her grandparents now!
>travelers only from the EU & UK

[I read they'll be opening to all vaccinated travelers, not just EU and UK](https://www.cnbc.com/amp/2021/09/20/us-to-ease-travel-restrictions-for-foreign-visitors-
who-are-vaccinated-against-covid.html?__source=iosappshare%7Ccom.apple.UIKit.activity.PostToTwitter&__twitter_impression=true)
Wish they could’ve announced this last week after my GF and I planned a 2 week holiday in Mexico so that I could enter the States after it, still going to have a great
holiday though!
Crazy. Please give update.
Hmmm yea I think because your final destination is Prague so NL border control probably don’t care about your quarantine document
Oh wow. How does this affect plane changes in Amsterdam originating from the US and continuing to another EU country?
Damn, that was the only country on my trip coming up I was concerned about pulling some stupid BS like this, now looks like I will have to find another place to visit
instead!
Only \~600 requests processed per day, but a backlog of 45k applicants…

Source: [https://www.demarches-simplifiees.fr/statistiques/passe-sanitaire-etrangers](https://www.demarches-simplifiees.fr/statistiques/passe-sanitaire-etrangers)
I got mine today. I applied 3 weeks ago, already went on my trip and came back to the US. Thankfully the swab test at the pharmacy was quick and easy albeit 29
euros.
Yup. Got that email today, too. At least they're able to send those out.
Thanks! I definitely hope they come up with an option for vaccinated tourists that isn't "get tested every single day".
Gosh, things really change SO quickly. I’m getting whiplash! I mean this is great news but sheesh.
That’s so interesting. Looks like the system they implemented on 9/4 only lasted 18 days. We are in the Netherlands now and just heard about the new vaccine
card system. Thanks for posting this!
Wasn't it mainly because of politics that they made it mandatory to quarantine?
Were there lots of locations available to get a PCR/Rapid antigen test in Rome? Can I just walk in, or is an appt necessary? I will need to get one there in a few
weeks
If you have the flexibility, adjust your itinerary to fly into Copenhagen, clear EU immigration there, then (on a separate ticket) catch a flight or train to Stockholm.
Easy peasy.
Legally dubious but pick another EU country that hasn't banned US travelers and then drive to Sweden? The internal Schengen borders don't have restrictions so it
could work
Same! I am supposed to be there in 2 weeks, other travel boards say I can enter via Spain since I’m already in the Schengen area, but risky…
Wholeheartedly agree with this, if you want to travel (leisure purpose), get vaccinated. It's called been responsible to your destination country and to your fellow
passengers.
>effectively eliminating travel for non-vaccinated.

eliminating non-essential travel for the non-vax.
I always use the department of state or us embassy websites. They are even more concise and clear than the foreign govermnets in a lot of cases

\> Orange countries (all other countries). Fully vaccinated travelers need only proof of vaccination; no COVID test or quarantine is necessary. France has not yet
officially announced what acceptable proof of vaccination will be for travelers vaccinated in the United States, but a tweet from the French Consulate General in
Washington said the CDC card would be acceptable

https://fr.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information/
Oh that's good news. I'm about to leave on a trip to Italy but will be flying in and out of VCE. I just checked their website after seeing this and they offer antigen and
molecular tests. Were you fine with the antigen test coming back? Because it's cheaper and faster
Thanks! Doing a nearly similar itinerary in mid-October!
>My big mistake was doing it on a Tuesday for a Friday departure. Still can't figure out how I'm reading this wrong, but the CDC website gives example of someone
flying on a Friday being able to take the test anytime on the prior Tuesday or after (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/testing-international-air-
travelers.html).

Yeah, sounds like they misunderstood. Some people have reported some annoying errors by check in (this one, but also time zone miscalculations), but at least it
didn't cause you to miss your flight.
The Binax results printout shows the time in UTC. Bucharest is UTC +2 so if you did the test at midnight local time it was still Monday at 10pm UTC. That would be
my guess
on which trains did you encounter issues?
The problem there is that people supposed to check the QR code do not know that your CDC card is valid, probably. They have been instructed to scan the QR
code, for them no QR code means no pass.

If you need to take a train, just take the slower ones (Regionale or Regionale Veloce) which I think are not required to check QR Code pass. It takes longer and you
need to change maybe a few trains but you get there.
That's super unfortunate. I'll be in Italy in a couple days, and I really hope I don't run into that issue.
Did you have this issue at multiple train stations? or just once so far? Since this is new, maybe the workers there just arent familiar with the CDC card yet?

EDIT: [https://www.italiarail.com/coronavirus-information](https://www.italiarail.com/coronavirus-information) says that green pass or equivalent (CDC card) is
accepted
Everytime. It has always come back negative, but I definitely get the paranoid feeling after doing the test that I won't get to go back to Canada. Keep us posted!
I do get a little anxious about it, though anxiety is my normal state, lol, so take that for what it's worth! Hope it goes well for you!
I haven’t seen a firm answer to this… but we were planning on doing the same thing. Hoping someone can confirm. We don’t leave until the 13th… I may try to
schedule us a rapid test at cvs or something just in case.
How was it using the train system (specifically the regional/high speed rail)? Did they accept your Quebec QR code as proof of vaccination?
I took the train from Florence to Rome a couple days ago. They checked for green passes while we were already on the train, and they accepted our CDC cards
with no problem.
On the train right now. Nobody checked anything. Just scanned my ticket and hopped on board. I stopped and asked some questions, but you can literally get on
the train without interacting with anyone. I believe you need the green pass for high speed trains.
Hi. I just did this same trip 3 days ago. They looked at my CDC card and compared to passport and let me board. Very smooth process.

Edit: I saw some people say not checking CDC cards for regional train: basically what’s going on is they are checking it only for fast trains. So if your train is a fast
train, they will check it.
I’m doing this in a couple days and can update you! I’ll probably forget so just message me after a few days!!
On a regional train, they probably won't even check your ticket (I have been on 6 regional trains in the last few days and have been checked once). The
announcements the train/station makes state that the green pass is required for high speed and inter city trains (Frecce, Intercity, Intercity notte, EC, EN,
Freccialink is the list from Trenitalia).
I took the train a few days ago and nobody asked to check anything...this was a regional train.
Palm Springs, CA has this requirement as of 8/26/21.
It's possible the maximum date could get extended depending on accumulated data about the degree of effectiveness over time of the shots. For example
Denmark, earlier this year, at one point had a 6 month maximum but later extended to 8 then 12 months.

With boosters, it would seem countries such as Croatia would need to update their guidance as strictly speaking, a 3rd dose of Pfizer or Moderna isn't addressed
(i.e., it only talks about timeframe from a "second dose"). Of course one could get a J&J shot and that would be clearly within their rules.

Nine months will start to hit those who got the earliest shots, by the end of this month and early next month. Hopefully there is some forethought to this going
forward.
This was prior to new rules. They implemented it like 3 weeks ago. It seems like such an arbitrary timeline.
Ok, crazy thing, right after I replied to you with this page: [https://www.visitportugal.com/en/content/covid-19-measures-implemented-portugal]
(https://www.visitportugal.com/en/content/covid-19-measures-implemented-portugal)

they updated the page to now say Aug 23rd again, back from Aug 31st. As if they made the updated page saying the US was good to go, then removed that
update... Crazy! I'm hoping you were going off of another source lol.
Thanks for the update! Was waiting for this
Do you have a link with this information? This seems to say the same: [https://www.visitportugal.com/en/content/covid-19-measures-implemented-portugal]
(https://www.visitportugal.com/en/content/covid-19-measures-implemented-portugal)

However the US Embassy page doesn't reflect any of the updates yet... [https://pt.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information/](https://pt.usembassy.gov/covid-19-
information/)

We've got a trip coming up and any firm information is gold at this point lol.
Yep, that should be all you need!
We're in Italy now. For trains, we booked Trenitalia and they checked our tickets and vaccine records after we got to our seats.

So far, some restaurants have asked for our vaccine records, but not all. All museums have asked for them before entry.

We got tested beforehand just to be safe, but nobody on the train, or at museums, or at restaurants asked for our test results.
Thanks for the info! Which test did you end up getting? I was planning on getting the antigen test since it's so much cheaper than PCR but still haven't decided.
you took the exact same flight im gonna take in a few days! thanks for providing this info. you mentioned in a comment below that you got a test done for
Amsterdam -- but i thought Schiphol airport did not require covid tests for layover passengers?
[https://www.info-coronavirus.be/en/redcountrieswhitelist/](https://www.info-coronavirus.be/en/redcountrieswhitelist/)

>Do you have a vaccination or recovery certificate? You do not need to quarantine or get tested.

Only the unvaccinated has to quarantine.
Was in Italy last week and yes, I showed my vaccine receipts on my phone with no issues getting into big tourist attractions and restaurants. They didn’t ask at the
border, on trains, or boats in Venice.
We're here in Italy now, from the US. Had the Rapid Antigen test the day before we left. Absolutely acceptable.
Yes they are. We just had this situation 2 weeks ago. If you test positive, get another one. The rapid tests are not as accurate as PCR. We had a false positive and
canceled our entire trip.
Hey, I have a trip in October. Do you know if you have to get a specific antigen test (like from a chain pharmacy) or could I get one at my much closer, small town
pharmacy?
> Does this sound like a reasonable plan?

Yep, many people are doing exactly that in /r/ustravelban.
Yeah, I got weird looks wearing a mask too. It's because they don't have to worry about testing negative to get home. We do, I am far more religious about masking
when I travelled/travel in Europe vs at home because I wanna get back to Canada after..
Can confirm the last bit. Submitted a week ago and crickets. Tried resubmitting yesterday, literally got the QR code within minutes, it’s insane lol
Copenhagen to Malmo? Yeah can confirm they don't seem to care
I read a post somewhere recently (here? Maybe) that mentioned this - and the person said that they provided you with a disposable mask if you didn’t have one.
very bad news indeed. Our route is France (6 days) > Belgium (3 days) > Netherlands, and i'm also hoping that means we're considered entering from within the EU
[deleted]
We are on our way home from Italy now. Our Canadian CDC cards were accepted for everything. If you’re worried you can also get a rapid Covid test from a
pharmacy and it will get you a 48 hour true Italian green pass.
Just spent a month in Italy doing a very similar route. My CDC card was never checked once on trains and just a hand full of times at restaurants.
They are! Traveling with mine today so will update if not accepted lol
Thank you for the update! Sorry about the train strike! We saw that yesterday and wondered how wide spread it was! Glad you got to AMS safely!
Currently in Italy from US with two people that have J&J and it’s been no issue. Most of the train conductors glance over at it to be honest. Museums have been
50/50 checking passport/CDC card or just card.

Overall if you have your cdc card it’s been very easy to navigate.
Cool. Thanks!
If you have submitted your pass sanitaire conversion application before last week, you should try to re-submit a new application. Many people have been reporting
that their requests were processed in less than an hour.

Places that have many international visitors accept foreign vaccination proofs, but some train attendants, some museums and restaurants may only accept valid EU
DCC format QR codes.
You can get a temporary 72hr QR code from a healthcare professional with a negative test. Most tests are 25-30€. I think this is your best bet.
Have you tried resubmitting? See my post right below yours.
I'm in France right now, everywhere I've been accepts a CDC card without issue, no one has turned it away.

All attractions and most restaurants will ask for it
[deleted]
> our flight didn’t even have passport control!

Austria and the Netherlands are both in the Schengen Area, so this isn't particularly surprising.

This just highlights one of the problems with various Schengen countries having wildly different COVID restrictions.
Whew, I can relax a little now. Trip is in 10 days so I’m crossing my fingers. Appreciate your update.
Just landed in the Netherlands. My flight required a negative covid test before boarding. Thought I’d go through bigger troubles once landing at AMS. Nope!
Checked my passport. Asked what I was doing. Replied that I was in transit and that was it. They didn’t check for anything else and then I hopped on a train.

I did provide the plane with a quarantine declaration, opting to not quarantine due to transit. It was all super easy and I was stressed over noting.
Why can't your fiance fly to Europe?
Just go to Mexico and wait two weeks before heading to the US. Or meet your fiancé in Europe or some third country you both can enter. That’s way too long to be
apart!
I really agree. There is no reason we shouldn't be letting vaccinated EU citizens in. I really feel for you.
It's official! Restrictions are being lifted!

https://edition.cnn.com/2021/09/20/politics/biden-administration-international-travel-restrictions/index.html
How long did it take you to get your passe sanitaire and when did you apply?
Is it possible to buy a temporary sim card in Europe? Can you explain how it works? In Italy I paid 16CAD/day for roaming with shitty mobile internet.
Nope we had them in our carryon no issues
Just be sure to get the proctored test where you have to video in so they can verify.
We will be in Italy mid-September and we got the eMed home tests so that we don't have to worry about finding an Italian pharmacy or anything like that.
Basic economy tickets are non-refundable and non-changeable. There had been some flexibility earlier in the pandemic. The current BE policy below references an
April 1, 2021 purchase date for BE once again being restricted but I thought it was as of Dec 31 (but don't recall for sure). In any case, your ticket confirmation will
have the applicable terms and conditions.

https://www.aa.com/i18n/travel-info/experience/seats/basic-economy.jsp

AA won't allow you to change or refund a non-refundable and non-changeable ticket just because you're worried about testing positive.
Any sort of proof of arrival/exit will do (i.e. bus ticket, plane ticket, train ticket, etc). Do keep in mind they are *extremely* behind on processing them (~2700
processed out of ~58,000 submitted requests, approximate wait time of seven days for those that have been processed so far [edited numbers as within 40ish min
of my comment, they had updated]).
I submitted my form with my train ticket into France and my plane ticket put of France on one PDF. I haven't heard anything back yet but I can update you if/when I
do.
Apparently September 4th it starts... so basically today in their timezone.

&#x200B;

https://www.government.nl/topics/coronavirus-covid-19/visiting-the-netherlands-from-abroad/checklist-entry/from-outside-the-eu
They just check to see it's negative
At least back in June, it was literally just a 3 second cursory glance by the gate attendant to see the word "Negative". It can be printed, a downloaded pdf copy, etc.
You shouldn't have anything to worry about.
I called the embassy this morning and she was saying that they look at the counties you have been in for the last 10 days.
I am in the same boat, currently in Germany, headed to Netherlands by train on 9/6.


I left the US on 8/27, arrived in Belgium 9/28 for a few days and now I'm in Germany.


I'm not sure what I need to do?
:(
Yes, you can enter. Sweden applies its criteria based upon the country from which you directly enter Sweden, not your point of origin or citizenship.

[https://polisen.se/en/the-swedish-police/the-coronavirus-and-the-swedish-police/travel-to-and-from-sweden/#EEA](https://polisen.se/en/the-swedish-police/the-
coronavirus-and-the-swedish-police/travel-to-and-from-sweden/#EEA)

>If you transit in the EEA\* or the Nordics, entry restrictions from the transit country will apply if you are processed through immigration there.

[https://polisen.se/en/the-swedish-police/the-coronavirus-and-the-swedish-police/faq/](https://polisen.se/en/the-swedish-police/the-coronavirus-and-the-swedish-
police/faq/)

>Will non-EEA\* citizens be allowed to enter Sweden from another EEA\* country, e.g. France or Norway?
>
>Regardless of citizenship, foreigners travelling from another EU country, a country that is part of the EEA, or from Switzerland, need to present the EU Covid
Certificate or equivalent, but other entry bans are not in effect.
>
>No entry ban is in effect or EU Covid Certificate or equivalent is required when travelling directly from Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway.
>
>**I am a U.S. citizen travelling to Sweden via Iceland. Do I need a negative test?**



No, since you travel from Sweden directly from Iceland, Sweden does not require a negative test or the EU Covid Certificate or equivalent. You will be processed
for immigration into the Schengen area in Iceland according to Icelandic rules.

You will need a negative test though unless you go through a Nordic country.

While Sweden does consider a transit (connecting flight) where you clear Schengen immigration in the transit country, as counting for entry from the transit country,
there have been reports of some airline agents not understanding this distinction and denying boarding when you point of origin is not an exempted third country.
So it's advisable to book separate tickets into an EEA (or ideally Nordic) country that you're allowed to enter, and then from there into Sweden. Denmark is an ideal
point for doing so (if feasible for you) as SAS airlines is very familiar with Sweden's EEA/Nordic-to-Sweden rules and won't give you any hassles into ARN. You can
also take a train from Copenhagen very easily into Sweden if desired.
Heading to Austria today from Munich - will update on how it goes with the paper Vax card. From what I’ve read it’s fine. Here in Bavaria we only need to show the
card to eat inside. You’re flying USA to AMS? Is it just a layover? You don’t have to quarantine?
Ok update: we had to show the cards to check into our hotel in Salzburg, and to eat lunch (even outside) - but having the CDC cards is truly no big deal. I’ve
already seen a ton more English speakers (probably US) here than in Munich. Austria seems less Covid concerned overall than Germany.
Yes thats all you should technically need. You should probably get a covid test today incase they change the restrictions and require a test.
This FT thread is probably worth following, especially starting at post #70

[https://www.flyertalk.com/forum/33564429-post70.html](https://www.flyertalk.com/forum/33564429-post70.html)
[https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/switzerland-third-country-vaccination-passports-not-recognized-for-entering-restaurants-travellers-will-have-to-test-every-
3-days/](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/switzerland-third-country-vaccination-passports-not-recognized-for-entering-restaurants-travellers-will-have-to-
test-every-3-days/)

Short answer: not yet.
I have the same trip planned, so it seems that coming from the Nordics is fine for entering Sweden.
I have a friend who will also be making this same trip soon, so following this post! The rules seem to support the case that anyone cleared through Denmark should
be fine, but I wish we could confirm in a better way.
You'll be fine. It's not even a technicality, it's clearly stated on the Polisen site that they go by the country from which you're crossing the border into Sweden, not
your original point of origin. Flew CPH-ARN last month, no issues, no document checks (just like in pre-pandemic days).

As for land crossing, there have been posts from some of the regulars on the Nordic forum on FT about it (link below). The posts I've seen show that there are
occasional document checks driving across the bridge, and less often on the train, that have been in place for several years for anti-terrorism related purposes. But
the entry guidelines as stated above are adhered to.

[https://www.flyertalk.com/forum/nordic-region-482/](https://www.flyertalk.com/forum/nordic-region-482/)

If you want more anecdotes, might check Trip Advisor Sweden forum too
Really depends. I've been on 3 transatlantics in the past month. One was full, one was pretty empty, one was so-so. The full and so-so were the same route in
reverse so even the ends don't tell the full story.
Can't speak for Singapore Air, but it seems that the airlines have pared flights down so there's fewer per week but remain mostly full. I went to Costa Rica this
summer and the flights each way were 95%+ full. Though my understanding is Singapore has very tight covid restrictions (assuming that's your destination), so their
flights might look different than Costa Rica (essentially wide open)
Not sure about Italy's acceptance, but be careful you buy the correct kits. The 2-packs that you get in the drug stores, etc. for $14-$25 or so, are almost always
**not** the online proctored version. The online version will have a red stripe printed on the box stating "Do not open until instructed to do so"

AFAIK the only common source of the proctored tests is through e-med, sold in 6-packs for $150. Though if you find a source selling smaller quantities cheaper
please let us know.

[https://www.emed.com/products/covid-at-home-testkit-six-pack](https://www.emed.com/products/covid-at-home-testkit-six-pack)

The actual testing instrument inside is the same, but you pay extra in essence for the online proctor. Which, those results do come in an official PDF that you can
print.

You could check your state or local health dept, in Ohio they purchased a ton of the proctored kits and are handing them out for free at public libraries.
I’m currently in Italy and Delta accepted my eMed BinaxNOW test results when I checked in at JFK a week ago. I printed the PDF lab report from eMed which they
send after you take the test. Nobody checked it in FCO.
Just curious, did you need a negative test in the US? I know based on the way its worded it shouldn't be needed since you're coming from Denmark, but just curious
how the airline interprets it.

I changed my flight this week to go to Denmark first and then fly to Stockholm on a separate ticket just in case Sweden were to remove us since I dont fly out until
the 14th.
Good to know about vax proof. How long was the entire EU entry process (eg customs, immigration, etc)? I am planning on flying into CPH then leaving to Finland
on a separate ticket (estimating ~3.5 hours in between flights). Hoping that's enough time.
Wait, so contrary to[ this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/pfi23b/coronavirus_megathread_sep_2021_for_travelrelated/hb5vvdd/), US travelers
as long as vaccinated and can provide the CDC Card, don't need to do an arrival test and quarantine before getting results? I was this close to cancelling my
Belgium leg of the trip, thankfully I caught your comment before doing so. This was extremely timely and helpful.
I just got an email from United saying they have a mandatory quarantine
also traveling by land from france to Spain so following to hear how it goes!
Just to clarify, are you saying you've been able to get around Paris with just your CDC card and without a French Health Pass/Passe Sanitaire QR code? Or did you
have the get the QR code with a negative test after arriving?
Okay whew

I'm soooo nervous about tomorrow. Will report back my experience. Im supposed to catch my flight back home to US from Amsterdam so I really hope I am able to
enter the Netherlands.
How long had you been in Germany? Seems like there's an exception to the quarantine rule if you've been out of the US for 10 days.
We filled ours after we checked in to our flight online so we had our seat number at that point
The risk isn’t as much as you’d think. NYT had a great article this morning talking about how low the risk actually is for the vaccinated. Personally, after getting to
Europe this week, I feel safer here than at home in the US. https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/07/briefing/risk-breakthrough-infections-delta.html
I think that’s the principle worry/risk factor of traveling right now that you have to either forfeit entirely by canceling the trip or gamble with going forward. Weigh out
whether that is worth it to you, but I think the chances of that happening as two fully vaccinated individuals taking precautions of testing and masking is far lower
than you going and having a great time with no issue. That’s just my two cents.
I would also feel good about going to Italy based on their current data. They are at 16% of their historical peak of cases (and falling) and their vaccine rate is around
66%. https://graphics.reuters.com/world-coronavirus-tracker-and-maps/countries-and-territories/italy/
I’m fully vaccinated and also traveling from the U.S. to Italy in 10 days. I’m pushing through with my trip. Will be extra cautious when I’m there, wear a mask
indoors/crowded areas and limit myself to doing outdoor activities and dining (will mostly be in Cinque Terre). It really depends on your comfort level. I am feeling
stressed and worried but I’m willing to take the risk. I went to Iceland in late May and was also really worried about everything going wrong (nothing did) but the
feeling I had once I got there made it all worth it. Good luck and hope you make the best decision for your situation.
My partner and I (both vaxxed and from the US) just returned from our 10 day Italy trip! I had the same paranoia as you but honestly it was probably safer than
staying home where only half of our pop is vaccinated. All of the big attractions and public transit required us to wear masks and have a green card. They take it
pretty seriously there!
Thank you all. I’m feeling better about it the more I read. I appreciate the data.
No test needed. See the example at: https://www.salute.gov.it/portale/nuovocoronavirus/dettaglioContenutiNuovoCoronavirus.jsp?
lingua=english&id=5412&area=nuovoCoronavirus&menu=vuoto&tab=3
The vaccination year could be an issue if you intended to use the EU DCC QR code in Switzerland.

A French vaccination center should be able to correct (they are not supposed to add new data about foreign vaccination, but they can edit) your vaccination date.
>I was wondering if there would be any issues traveling between France and Netherlands?

[https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/coming-to-france/coronavirus-advice-for-foreign-nationals-in-france/](https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/coming-to-
france/coronavirus-advice-for-foreign-nationals-in-france/)

[https://www.government.nl/topics/coronavirus-covid-19/visiting-the-netherlands-from-abroad/checklist-entry/from-the-eu]
(https://www.government.nl/topics/coronavirus-covid-19/visiting-the-netherlands-from-abroad/checklist-entry/from-the-eu) (France is in the high-risk list)

&#x200B;

>Do I need a covid test going to Amsterdam and coming back to France?

Not at the moment for entry to either of those countries (as of today September 1st), but transport companies can request them so you should also check with
yours.
Definitely has to be recorded/official. Otherwise there is nothing stopping people from faking it
You’ll need test report attesting to the results. There are some telemedicine services that allow testing at home that will give emailed results.
I believe it’s actually 72 hours and can be either than rapid or PRC version
I would take a picture of it before traveling, so if you lose it you have a backup
Yes if you're vaccinated you're still good to go, no testing or isolation needed. The change to Orange only impacts the unvaccinated. CDC card is definitely
acceptable for entry, just did it a couple weeks ago.

Official government interactive tool for entry requirements (US is an OECD country if it mentions that criterion)

https://en.coronasmitte.dk/covidtravelrules

Enjoy your trip!
Yes:
https://en.coronasmitte.dk/rules-and-regulations/entry-into-denmark/categorization-of-countries

*** Applies to fully vaccinated persons who are habitually resident in OECD countries.
Not if you are transiting to another EU Destination that does not have entry restrictions within a certain time period.

[https://www.government.nl/topics/coronavirus-covid-19/visiting-the-netherlands-from-abroad/checklist-transit-or-short-stay]
(https://www.government.nl/topics/coronavirus-covid-19/visiting-the-netherlands-from-abroad/checklist-transit-or-short-stay)
Why does it matter? You either have the test results or you don't.
If you're fully vaxxed you're good to go transiting in Istanbul.
What country?
As long as the rules don't change tomorrow when they take the USA off the list that should be doable based off of the polisen.se site. I'm actually planning on doing
the same thing with the exception of flying from CPH to ARN in a week. I'll try to remember to come back and let you know my experience but I have talked to
another person that successfully traveled using FRA as their transit airport before the US was on the safe list
The CDC requirements are linked in the post.
you only need a test if you're flying back to the US
Ha, I just did this same trip. There is no quarantine required so you can leave the hotel and move around on Day 0 if you like. The Day 2 test needs to be taken *on
or before* Day 2, they are not strict about when—you can even take it on Day 0 if you like (some of my family in the UK have taken their Day 2 tests on arrival at
the airport to get them over and done with but it is more expensive.) Whoever you go with I **do not** recommend **Expert Medical**. Out of six tests we ordered,
not a single one arrived on Day 2. (One Day 4, Day 5 and four arrived on Day 10 by which point we had already taken a fit to fly antigen test). We had negative
tests from Spain before departure though so we did not need to quarantine or wait for the Day 2.

Don’t forget to do your test in Spain before leaving for the UK (antigen is fine). Also both Spain and the UK require passenger locator forms to be filled out before
you get to the airport (that’s if you are spending time in Spain which is how I understood it rather than just connecting?)
My first card also only has a county seal and my second shot has the cdc logo. My husband’s shots are both on the same card, with no cdc logo. We travelled to the
UK and Spain with a layover in Denmark and had no issues.
My husband had one that walgreens printed off, no CDC logo. I was worried we would have issues so we went to walgreens and asked for a new card with CDC
logo. They had his vaccine info in the system so no biggie to give him a new one. The other one looked fake almost.
Yes. Travelled to London and Spain a couple of weeks ago. I’m a Brit living in the US and only my second dose has the CDC logo. I didn’t even notice during travel,
no one questioned it. My husband is American and he got both his doses on a non-CDC logo card. He also travelled with me and it wasn’t till I read your comment
that I went to double check. We didn’t have any issues, I put more details in my response to the comment below.
> My question is regarding the French health pass. We are going to apply online for it after we switch our flights. Seeing others have had difficulties, I’m not sure if
we will be able to board a train to Amsterdam. Does anyone have any experience with this? Will our cdc cards work? I have a QR code for my vaccinate proof as
well. Or do we have to test negative before boarding the train? Thank you for any insight.

Officially, only EU DCC compatible QR codes (and UK NHS QR codes) are accepted in France. The scanner app won't recognize your QR code because it's from
a different system. Depending on the mood of the official doing the scan, they may or may not accept your CDC card. But don't count on it. If you don't get the
health pass from the French authorities on time, head to any pharmacy in Paris and pay ~25 euros for a rapid antigen test. This'll give you a QR code you can load
into the TousAntiCovid app used for the health pass. Or you can carry the paper around with you. That'll get you on the train.
Your passport has been scanned upon entry to Schengen area, so in case of control the border agent will already know that you have not been outside of
Schengen area since August 1st.
They care about where you've been. If you're in a country from which a test is not required, then a test is not required.
My husband and I submitted August 26th as well. I got mine on August 30, he still hasn't gotten his.
Use the VeriFLY app. You put in your flight info and it makes a checklist of exactly what you need, with links to any forms. It really saved me for my trip to Paris with
a layover in London.
Are you vaccinated? If so, France's requirements are pretty straightforward, as linked in the post and the stickied comment.
Heads up, Switzerland will no longer accept the CDC card for indoor areas such as restaurants, cafeterias, etc. and instead requires people to get tested every 3
days if you don't have the EU Digital Certificate.

There is an "immediate solution" in the works apparently.

https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/switzerland-third-country-vaccination-passports-not-recognized-for-entering-restaurants-travellers-will-have-to-test-every-
3-days/
For Denmark, just the CDC card is perfectly fine.
I think people said Spain wasn't too hard to get into, France had issues getting the French Health Pass, but just go do a Covid test and you'll get a pass for like 72
hours. I think someone said they had a hard time in Switzerland on this thread.

Happy Travels!
Each country has its own rules, but I've never heard of a country enforcing quarantine based on citizenship and it wouldn't make sense for them to.
Ask your hotel, Google, or look around when you get there. Finding places to take COVID tests isn't difficult in most countries nowadays, especially an advanced
country like Portugal.
There are more testing places in the EU than at home - they are everywhere. But we bought the BINAX now from eMED and brought them with us.
I'm looking at going to Portugal too.

I think you can just ask your hotel or the local pharmacy for one. I wouldn't stress too much, but should know when/where/how long it takes to get one in the
country.
Should be available at most pharmacies. Worst comes to worst, you can take it at the airport: [http://vvv.synlab.pt/covid-19/vai-viajar](http://vvv.synlab.pt/covid-
19/vai-viajar)
Hey there! I am in the same situation, early October trip planned but not sure if anything is needed outside of what you posted. Interested to hear any information.
I’d say it’ll be valid until a third dose becomes fully required. There’s no way of knowing exactly how long that’ll be right now.
Hear now. Have not been turned away from anywhere with the CDC cards. Have been in big cities (Rome and Florence) and smaller areas (greve in Chianti,
Radda).
I like the halo masks with the filter inserts
I prefer lighter masks, especially for long trips.

I prefer to use the straps that connect on the back of your head instead of ears, so that your ears don’t get pulled forward the entire long flight
IIRC copper is antibacterial which is entirely useless against viruses.

Generally you want to avoid cloth masks as they've been proven to not really be all that effective. The best masks in terms of actually doing something are the
surgical ones (you know the blue/pink disposable masks) and N95 masks **without** a valve.
From what I could find Morocco operates on a List A & B system. Countries from list A can travel to Morocco and countries from list B cannot. American is List A and
can travel to the country and just need a negative PCR test taken within 72 hours of entry.

https://ma.usembassy.gov/covid-19-information/


However you would be traveling from Spain which is a list B country so I’m not sure if you could enter

https://visitmorocco.com/sites/default/files/list-b-en.pdf


Though this list was created back in July, finding it hard to find a newer list if there is one. I hope you can go as Morocco is a beautiful country to visit. Hope this
helped.
masks *outdoors* in certain crowded spaces too in Italy, notably the vaporetti in Venice. the employees will sternly shout MASCHERINA in your direction even if
you're maskless on the outdoor portion.
I have had a bit of a different expereince with the CDC card bit. I am currently in Tuscany and they have been checking for the green pass or proof of vaccination at
every single restaurant for indoor dining. I have observed folks being asked to leave when they were unable to provide proof. Same with cathedrals or any other
attraction similar to museums, even if the attraction is semi-outside
You can get a green pass from France. There are many comments on this thread with links and instructions for how to fill this out. You can also google "COVID
green pass for US visitors" and it will bring up a link where you can upload documentation for the green pass (which will come in the form of a QR code).

I highly recommend you prioritize this. The green pass works everywhere in the EU, not just France. It will save you tons of time whenever you enter anywhere
indoors or do a touristic activity
They use the paper.
I’m bringing my work laptop on my next trip (next month) just in case.
I bought travel insurance that would have covered my quarantine cost if I tested positive and my work laptop with me when I went to Ireland.
thank you for everyone who helped me with this. I reapply and I was accepted and sent a sanitary pass within 5 minutes!!!
Italy requires a test, btw.

For those countries that don't, they just need to see your vax card.
We are currently in Turkey. We had to fly on united, air Canada, and Turkish air to get here. All three airlines just checked we are vaccinated and had our health
registry papers for turkey. No one asked about tests.
Presuming this is after Oct. 4 (and to England), see the stipulations for the vaccination record [here](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/red-amber-and-green-list-rules-
for-entering-england#fully-vaccinated).
Pyser - I was Kensington not too long ago
You've mentioned two of the big criteria for me as those countries are more likely to be comfortable with visitors now and in the future because their own citizens
are in a good position. I also consider the country's history of imposing or re-imposing restrictions, particularly for travelers from my point of origin. Some have been
more prone to knee-jerk reactions on arrivals from a given country when there are increased cases in the other country.

I'm still favoring refundable or low cancellation fee travel arrangements, or if not possible making sure my travel insurance will cover what I don't want to lose.

In Paris now and have been using my cdc card! Got it everywhere with no problems! Didn’t even bother with the health pass.
I (US citizen) applied for the digital pass about three weeks ago. Today I (finally) got an email from them saying that since they've been flooded with applications
and can't handle them all and they apparently didn't think this idea through, tough shit. I should go get tested every 72 hours at a French pharmacy instead.
Good luck.
United's travel-ready center also tells me I need a test for a flight where I am pretty sure I don't need one. But I'm getting a test anyway because it's easier and less
stressful than arguing with an airline and it seems like the right thing to do before a long-haul flight regardless of the rules.

I guess you could try printing out the requirements from the French government website and showing them at the check in counter... But I'd really recommend to
just get tested.
I received a similar email/text from United for my Germany flight this weekend that I needed a test when a negative test is not required by Germany, which I
confirmed in the travel ready center and through two different United agents on their website. Today I realized it probably was a notice for my flight back into the US
from Europe in a few weeks, not my outbound trip that they say I need a test for. Since tests are required by the US for entry. Don't know if the same applies in your
case
Was it for your return flight? Because you do need a negative test to reenter the United States?
I would say out of an abundance of caution and rules changing to get a test 72 hours before your trip and print the results just in case
I’d get the test just to make sure nothing goes wrong!
I flew United to Paris on 9/2, I just uploaded my vaccination card to the app and it was fine. When I arrived in France and went through customs they did not even
check my vaccination card. I got a PCR test done within 72 hours in case rules changed.
Wasn’t the check done at the point of your departure?
so what else are you going to do? Cancel with no refund? I say hold onto it, plan on it, and you can always cancel if you need to. A lot can change by then.
[deleted]
Out of curiosity where are you getting the vibe that it’s getting worse from? My wife and I leave for Portugal this Saturday. I’ve been monitoring as much information
as I can for months… from what I can tell things seem to be heading in the right direction. I actually made a spreadsheet (lol, I know, it’s extra) to keep track of how
Portugal is doing compared to my home state. I’ve been updating it for about a month and their number of new cases per day has been steadily decreasing while
ours in our state keeps going up.

Comparatively, they’re in much better shape right now. Not to mention their vaccine numbers are WAY above the US’s. Idk man, barring Portugal wising up and
banning us Americans, I’m not seeing any reason to hold off on the trip. I get the sense that it’s much safer there than here. Just don’t be a bad tourist, wear your
mask as much as you possibly can and stay diligent. Get trip insurance. Etc.
I’m not sure where you’re receiving your information but Covid is actually getting much better, not worse.

At this point, daily # of positive cases for the whole country is less than 1k a day. Over 75% of all people have been fully vaccinated, I’m sure it’ll resemble close to
the 90s by December.

I was in Lisbon last week and I had no problems going around. Everyone wore their mask out of respect but for the most part everything was open late at night.
Similar question, following
Airlines do not require tests themselves, they just check to see if you're allowed to enter the country because if not they'd be liable to fly you back.
They might cover a test if you thought you have covid, but a test for travel is the ultimate elective procedure.
As long as the test meets the requirements, it doesn't matter where the sample comes from.

In real life, as long as you have a price of paper that says "antigen test" and your name, the lady at the airline counter will be fine with it.
Why would it?
I don't think 20 would raise any questions about commercial use. 200 on the other hand might. Keep your receipts so when you explain you're bringing them as
they're much cheaper, it makes sense to the CBP officer.
Correct. Assuming you're vaccinated all you need to enter Denmark is proof of vaccination

[https://en.coronasmitte.dk/covidtravelrules](https://en.coronasmitte.dk/covidtravelrules)

From Denmark you don't need anything else to enter Sweden - no test, no proof of vaccination. Nor is anything needed to travel within Sweden.

[https://polisen.se/en/the-swedish-police/the-coronavirus-and-the-swedish-police/travel-to-and-from-sweden/](https://polisen.se/en/the-swedish-police/the-
coronavirus-and-the-swedish-police/travel-to-and-from-sweden/)

I flew from the US to Copenhagen then Copenhagen to Stockholm last month, there are no document checks on flights (i.e., same as pre-covid intra-Schengen
days).

As reported on Flyertalk and Tripadvisor, there may or may not be any document checks by the Swedish Police on the train to Malmo - when conducted the
purpose is counter-terrorism and anti-smuggling, but as set forth in Sweden's rules linked above you're allowed entry from Denmark regardless or citizenship or
residence so this won't be a problem.
The French health pass is accepted in all EU countries (and a few non-EU ones as well). So you won't need to get tested unless countries start to impose rules that
require vaccinated people to also get tested.
Aren't they allowing vaccinated people in again- since May or June? :(
Oof, i recall seeing your post about testing positive right before the trip. Truly sucks but dont give up. The weather is probably better anyways in the upcoming
weeks since summer starts to taper off
I appreciate the info but "vote with your dollars" really? They are trying to keep their citizens safe. If that doesn't work for someone then of course they shouldn't go
but framing it as a take-that at Switzerland is super odd.
Given that COVID rates are lower in Europe than they are in the U.S. and the fact that you’re vaccinated, I’d be inclined to go. The biggest factor for me (if I were
you) might be the risk of having to quarantine at the end of the trip. My partner and I are going to Europe in September and don’t really have jobs we need to come
back to, so the risk of a quarantine at the end isn’t as big a deal for us. For many other people, however, a possible quarantine is a much bigger deal, and in that
case I’d either consider not going right now, or ensuring that we weren’t going to be around too many people throughout the trip in order to reduce probability of that
happening. Traveling inside the U.S. actually seems like the highest risk option, IMO, because it’s a shit-show here right now and rates just keep climbing higher.
Just do the trip you want to do and only worry about things you can control. Travel is very rewarding right now because many people are too scared. If you have the
luxury of being able to quarantine if necessary and you are vaccinated, there's nothing really to worry about anyway. Just have the airline put you on the next best
flight.
I believe the times are converted to UTC (or something similar). So crossing time zones should not matter. I mean, what if someone crossed the wrong way over
the international date line?
I can only speculate…but my guess is if they haven’t closed to US tourists now they won’t at all barring a cataclysmic event. I’m going to assume testing becomes
more pivotal when entering. But I don’t assume places like France, Greece, Italy, etc who depend really highly on tourist dollars will do anything but try to remain
open.
Like the other guy said, no one can tell the future but France hasn't changed its policies regarding vaccinated travellers in a long time. Those are all let in regardless
of the covid situation at the origin.
Nobody can tell the future, and that's a long ways from now, but have you looked at the current restrictions? Why would the EU recommendation affect you, based
on the current restrictions?
France is ignoring the green list for vaccinated travelers I wouldn't worry
Low Vax countries maybe but otherwise I absolutely don't think so. Definitely not in the US. We're two years into this, the vax was supposed to be the end goal, no
way Americans tolerate another lockdown.
Definitely maybe.
Same here. I asked a nurse when I went for routine, non-covid immunization. She told me that the EU is only not approving the "Indian" AZ and the one we got in
Canada is OK. BUT when I check the Govt of Can website it says the AZ manufacturer is " AstraZeneca Canada Inc AND Verity/ SII". A quick Google of that says
SII stands for Serum Institute of India. I'm confused.
Agreed 100%
Ha, the story I posted has since been updated as well. Good catch.
Wish you a great time in Mexico!
Mexico is better to visit than the US anyways so this is a win!
For what it's worth, they only appear to be enforcing this for inbound travelers from specific destinations. If you flew into France and then took a flight on a separate
ticket to Amsterdam, for example, this would not be enforceable.
I talked to our hotel manager (in Amsterdam) some today at happy hour about this change. He says it’s so NL can relax rules around social distancing and indoor
seating capacity. If they make sure everyone in a space is vax- then they ditch those other rules. The F&B people aren’t happy about being vax card police though.
But it seemed to work well in Germany/Austria. NL has even lower Covid rates than those counties. It’s amazing really, with 17M people.
Yea, don't think i can really relax until after i land in EU lol
Ha, been monitoring all my destinations like a hawk. It’s more stressful than my daytime job honestly
No one knows for sure, but that's certainly a main driver. However, I think the loosening of quarantine is due to their vaccination rates being high + some pressure
from the tourism sector. Again, these are just my guesses, and my guesses are as good as anyone else's.
Rapid antigen tests are easy - they’re available at most pharmacies. You’ll see the tents set up outside for many of them. I think you can walk in.

For PCR (molecular) you’d probably want to make an appointment. That’s what we did with Artemisia. It was pretty painless and they include your passport info on
the results document so it’s ready to go for travel. Results in English as well.

ETA - if you were having issues with your vaccine proof for some reason and wanted a true Italian green pass, test results from Artemisia provide you with
instructions for obtaining one. We got it just for the fun of it after getting our results and had the QR code ready to go in a matter of minutes.
It's not legally dubious at all, Sweden's page specifically says restrictions apply based on where you enter from even if it's transit and its restrictions for its
neighbors are "no restrictions"
>I always use the department of state or us embassy websites. They are even more concise and clear than the foreign govermnets in a lot of cases

The French government has a pretty clear, and detailed, website about restrictions that indicates that vaccinated travelers are permitted regardless of country of
origin. And I'd generally consider the destination country itself to be the most reliable about its own rules.
Please note that the slower InterCity are also subject to Green Pass checks according to Trenitalia:

"From September 1st, 2021 let's travel safely with Green Pass or equivalent certifications on Frecce, InterCity, InterCity Notte, EuroCity, EuroNight trains and
FrecciaLink in compliance with the Legislative Decree of August 6th, 2021 no. 111."

Using several Regionali for a long distance may take a very long time…

[https://www.trenitalia.com/it/informazioni/Infomobilita/notizie-infomobilita.html](https://www.trenitalia.com/it/informazioni/Infomobilita/notizie-infomobilita.html)
Yeah, I see all sorts of conflicting information on this. I just know some Italians who have authority think it is one way, some think it's another.
I got my result back early, NEGATIVE.

So relieved. Im going out for beers in celebration
I may end up being your test subject.
I used all kinds of trains there: regional, intercity and metropolitano. Trains are amazing in Italy. Tickets for regional trains you can buy right in the station, for
intercity you have to buy in advance (they might be even cheaper than regional if buy in advance).

When I was there they didn't ask for vaccination. But I've heard that starting from the 1st of September you have to show the green pass. I hope it won't be an issue.
Awesome great to hear! Thanks!!
Oh interesting, what train was this?
Got it, thanks :) great to hear it went smoothly!
Same thing just happened to me! I leave for Lisbon in 48 hours, so I checked first thing when I got up and saw “Updated on August 31” with USA still in the
“nonessential” group. Now I’ve noticed it seems to alternate every time I open the page between the 31st and 23rd. I can confirm that USA doesn’t change in either
iteration and Brazil does in fact move out of “limited” on the 31st iteration. I can’t figure out if it’s a weird bug or they are updating it at this very moment and we just
need to be patient
Awesome thanks. What province are you from if you don’t mind me asking?
So I technically played it on the safer side of things. Because of my layover in Netherlands, they had different requirements for the timeframe of the tests.
Netherlands was 48 hr PCR and 24 hr antigen before DEPARTURE while Italy was 72 hr antigen/PCR before ARRIVAL. I ended up doing an antigen 3 days before
and a PCR 2 days before. The RT-PCR result was only 15-20 mins tho which was mind blowing to me but it was definitely more convenient and reassuring.


Edit: when i say before, i mean before my estimated arrival time to Florence, Italy, my final destination.
I took it just incase Netherlands changed their requirements last minute. Just played it safe really but yes Schipol does not need testing for transit/layover flight.
Thank you so much, this is great insight and I really appreciate it! You just saved me a ton of stress.
Netherlands does not have a ban, restrictions, or quarantine requirements for inter-EU travel.
This is what I did today.

Found a random pharmacy, asked for a covid test, paid $25 and got my pass within 30 mins.

Majority of restaurants have been asking for them. You also need it for things like the lourve, Eiffel Tower, catacombs, etc.

There are also white tents set up all over the city that say they give results in 10 mins. I’m assuming they will email results and passes as well.
I’ll give it a shot, thanks!
good to hear, thank you
Username checks out
Thank you. Thank you so much.
I applied 8/19 and received 8/25. They also emailed yesterday to say they wouldn’t be able to send it in time due volume which was clearly auto generated as we
had already received our passes. We scanned them today at musee d’orsay and worked fine!
Free mobile: several vending machines available in many partner shops, EUR 19.99 for a month + EUR 10 for the SIM card. Unlimited calls to France/EU and
USA, ~~100GB~~ 150GB data in 5G in France, 25GB roaming data included in US/CA/EU/IS/AU/NZ/UK…

Bouygues in Bouygues telecom shops: EUR 60 valid 60 days, unlimited calls FR/EU, 25GB data in France, 15GB data in EU.

Several MVNOs (Lycamobile, Lebara, etc) sold in newspaper shops: EUR 10 for the SIM card, then EUR 10 for 80GB internet FR/EU valid 30 days.
Never been to France before specifically but in every EU country I've been to you can buy a SIM card at any telecom store and load it for <10-20 euros for a good
number of GB. I even keep around a romanian SIM and thus have data immediately when my plane lands. Google prepaid SIM wiki. You can check out airalo too
although I've never used them
Yes as someone else mentioned we used Orange, 40 euros for unlimited calls/texts, 30gb in Europe; 2hr and 1000 texts to other countries; good for two weeks.
Yes! When I moved to France (2015) I set up a temporary ‘vacation’ phone plan before I got something more permanent sorted out. I did it through a company
called Orange and I think it was like 30 euros for 2 weeks with tons of data and international calling/texting. I believe you could do pay as you go and top up as well.
Many airports will have booths for cellular companies offering these options.
Its not very hard. Legit every pharmacy in a major city has tents setup outside with test for 24 euros and 30-minute results.
I applied about three weeks ago. Was told today that they're not going to process my application.
It's a mess and they are in way over their heads.
whoa. out of curiosity, where did you get those numbers?
Thanks
Yeah I guess I should have added that I saw they updated their travel restrictions to require self quarantining. I’m fully vaxxed and could do it in 5 days with a
negative result but that’s not ideal. Wondering what the chances are if the US starts going down in positive rates that the Netherlands would quickly update their
restrictions to reflect.
Please report back! With the way things are I’m heavily reliant on anecdotal experience from fellow travelers
Thank you so much for the detailed reply, agreed it is a very strange policy.
I’m heading to Munich and surrounding areas in 10 days. Thanks for the updates. I’ll have my card and passport with me at all times.
[deleted]
Optum has a 2 pack for the proctored tests and I believe they sell a single one as well.
 https://store.optum.com/shop/products/abbott-binaxNOW-COVID-19-ag-at-home-test-kit-2-pack/

As you mention, it's identical to the cheaper ones you can (theoretically, given supply) buy at pharmacies, but provides a print off. I guess I'll try contacting my local
Italian consulate and see what they say. If they report back, I'll post a accordingly.
Update. They didn’t ask for anything, test or proof of vaccination. Just walked straight through.
We did just out of an abundance of caution. I will reply when we get to Stockholm and let you know what they ask for.
I did this 2 weeks ago. Flying to CPH just had to show CDC card at check-in in the US and for immigration at CPH. On the separately booked flight to Stockholm,
SAS (correctly) didn't ask for anything at all during check-in or boarding. No immigration control at Stockholm as you've already entered Schengen at CPH.
I would confirm with the embassy rather than take a random persons anecdotal experience

Edit: downvoted for suggesting people trust what the Belgian consulate/embassy says rather than an anonymous poster. Never change Reddit.
I called United to confirm and they said they sent that out to everyone and a quarantine is not needed. I am so confused!!
We're cheering for you, hope that works out for ya
In an earlier comment, he or she said 8 days. Sounds like they are really focused on US people entering from the US rather than from the Schengen zone.
Thanks for sharing this. I am supposed to be heading to Spain at the end of the month and even though I am fully vaccinated, I'll confess, this whole Delta thing has
really got me doubting whether I should still go. I think this article really helps give me a little more perspective.
That was my intent, I’ve made a request for the date change online but we’ll see if it arrives in time.

Can I go to any pharmacist in France or is there a designated vaccine Center? Thank you!!
This is the best news I could have hoped for thank you so much and for your quick response!
I’m Curious about what happens if my test was taken 70 hours before my flight was scheduled to land but there happens to be a few hour delay on my connecting
flight and now I am outside the 72 hour window
Thanks for your reply, best of luck with your travels! Keeping my fingers crossed that all goes well for you.
Following as well, supposed to be flying from Madrid to Arlanda in 2 weeks, US citizen here fully vax.
Would you know if I need to take the test on day 2 or can it also be done on day 1?
It did, thank you!
I’m in Venice now, But I never took a ferry, good to know!
I’ll be in Tuscany for the next week. Thanks for the heads up
“Your destination flight requires proof of a negative COVID 19 test” is what the email told me
> I got a PCR test done within 72 hours in case rules changed.

For the record we over here in the EU are clever and understand that if we decide to start requiring tests for inbound travellers, that we can't make that demand of
people who are already within that 72 hour window. So any such rule change would be announced ahead of time such that you have time to get the test done
before departing.
What app did you use to upload your card?
Thank you. Just needed some validation I guess since I usually get negative reactions
This is mostly true except for departures from counties that airlines have personally determined to be high risk like Pakistan
Does anyone have a more recent experience flying from Copenhagen to Stockholm? Are there checks for vaccination/passport/both?
I think OP tested positive right before the trip.
With EU removing the US from the safe travel list, Netherlands I think is now requiring 10 day quarantine and Sweden banning US tourists.

It seems that those came from the EU move.

Was more looking for a general “likely” projection of what France will do from someone maybe familiar with their past moves.
As far as I am aware if it's made in India it's not approved by some EU countries because the EMA in Europe hasn't approved manufacturing at that facility. At least
that's how I understood it
Yeah it has become a pain in the ass! I had a full solid month trip planned and now 30 days from leaving, I have to replan half of it
I hear you! I’ve lost a lot of sleep over this trip :)
I'm really hoping they confirm it soon because I'm trying to travel like 9/23 or 9/24! haha
The regional train from Rome to Florence.
TAPs website reflects the 8/31 update now.

Flytap.com/en-us/travel-restrictions
This is the same dilemma I'm having! I have a layover in Germany so I need to work out the best time frame to take whichever test. Your method makes a lot of
sense though. I may end up doing something similar. Thank you!
thanks, this sparks some confidence!
is the process fairly straightforward for someone who speaks *very* limited French?
I can confirm. CDC card has been accepted everywhere.
Damn, lucky! I applied Aug 22 for Sept 6 entry and still crickets
Just a note, Free's 19.99 euro plan is now 150gb of 5G/4G+ data in France.
Yeah we weren't super worried about it, but all the tests we looked up were like 60 euros each so it wouldn't have been much extra. Oh well, insurance covered it
so we're not really out anything.
In Paris now and have been using my cdc card! Got it everywhere with no problems! Didn’t even bother with the health pass.
https://www.demarches-simplifiees.fr/statistiques/passe-sanitaire-etrangers
It’s Labor Day weekend, lots of people traveling, including the unvaccinated and asymptomatic but vaccinated delta carriers, it’ll probably go up further and then
seem to plateau and drop as we rollout the booster shots too.
I already posted this on the main thread but figured I'd reply here as well so y'all don't miss it:

My Berlin to Amsterdam train (Deutsch Bahn) got cancelled because of the public transport strike. I booked a ten hour flixbus that had several stops throughout
Germany and Netherlands. I was able to board the bus in Berlin with no issues, the flixbus employee glanced at my passport, didn't even ask for vaccination card.
There were no additional checks when entering Netherlands.
I would aim for 72 hours before arrival in Spain, not departure, because that is how Spain was previously timing travel tests.
Thanks for the update, still going to get tested just in case but that makes me feel much better about the 48 hour window.
Wow! I'm flying SAS next week and they are asking for a negative test before entering Copenhagen for a layover on the way to CDG.
Please update us when you get there!
The NL government travel website specifically says they do not enforce an entry ban or restrictions on any travel within the EU.
Pharmacists are technically able to do that but they are supposed to manage only French Health Insurance card holders' files…

Legally, if the ministry of Foreign Affairs didn't change it before you arrive, you should ask a MD: so either a doctor in their office, or a doctor in a vaccination center.

I guess the best option would be the vaccination centers that do not require prior booking, such as the one on city hall square in Paris (place de l'Hôtel de Ville).
The requirement is 72 hours before arrival in Italy so the best way to avoid complications is to leave yourself more wiggle room. Antigen test results can be had in
minutes so there's no need to take a test that far in advance.
Arrived in Stockholm last night. I flew IAD>FRA>CPH and then a separate ticket CPH>ARN
In Frankfurt I had to show my cdc card at passport control and then I had to show it again at the Lufthansa desk to get my boarding pass for Denmark.
Once in Denmark, nobody asked to see anything although as I was walking to baggage claim someone did ask if I was fully vaccinated but I simply just said yes.
Got my bags went back through security, no checks there outside of boarding pass and the standard liquids out of bag, laptops out etc and then no check once I got
to Stockholm.
No, it must be in day 2
After another quick google I do think you can enter found this blog that was last updated today.

https://blog.wego.com/morocco-travel-restrictions-and-quarantine-requirements/

Looks like you can enter! Just have to have a negative pcr test that’s not older than 48 hours.
I just left Venice, enjoy! if you have the chance I recommend getting some gelato from Grom and eating pretty much anything at Da Cherubino :)
Any chance it could be referring to the destination of your return flight? I know that language from my airline confuses me a bit from time to time
Of course they can’t make that demand, it’s nonsensical but it doesn’t stop an airline employee from being confused about the rules and ruining your day. It’s also
just a best practice anyway.
The United app, they’ll ask you to upload your COVID docs so depending on what country you’re visiting vaccination records, negative test etc. I never had to show
my vaccination card in person at all.
I’m hopeful - but will feel a lot better once someone from the US flies into AMS in the next few days from another EU country and posts about their experience lol.
Surely the immigration officers at the airport aren’t going to try to ascertain how long you were in your last (safe or at least not very high risk) country before flying
in?
They know you need a temporary pass sanitaire certifying a negative test. The most complicated part might be filling the form (which is actually quite trivial if it is an
online form…)
Yup, very easy. I don’t speak any French besides basic phrases. Most people speak at least a little English. I went up, asked for a covid test and health pass in
English. The man at the counter spoke pretty good English. I was provided a quick form with my info. Then took the swab and got the email with the code very
quickly.
That sucks, I really feel like I just happened to squeeze by. There are a ton of places to get rapid tests here but I know it would be preferable to have before
heading out.
Do you show ID as well as the CDC card? Do you think a picture of it on the phone would fly?

What sorts of places are asking once you're on the ground? Hotels, restaurants?
United's travel ready center has totally separate tabs for each journey/leg, so outbound and inbound list their own requirements on separate tabs even if it's
roundtrip. And within the right tab they list if each separate flight needs a test or not. I believe that OP is seeing info that conflicts with the rules because I am too.
Eating inside or on the terrasse of a restaurant/café, museums, malls, bars, clubs, concerts, etc, all require the health pass. Some may or may not be okay with the
CDC card -- it'll all depend on who's doing the checking and what city you're in (Paris sees more American tourists than Toulon, for example).
Our hotel did not, some restaurants do!
I see the same message, but right underneath it it says vaccinated travelers from the US and other Green list countries don’t need a test result to enter France.
**For the last few months we've been getting multiple posts a day on American Passport Questions. To help alleviate the amount of posts, and make sure everyone
is getting the same information I've created this Megathread.**

___

For questions on COVID Vaccine Passports please use the COVID Megathread, 1st post in /r/travel.

___

THE BEST ADVICE IS APPLY AND RENEW EARLY. ALWAYS CHECK YOUR PASSPORT'S EXPIRATION DATE. PUT YOUR PASSPORT IN A SAFE AND
SECURE PLACE WHERE YOU WILL NOT LOSE IT. DO NOT CHECK EXPIRATION OR LOCATION OF PASSPORT THE NIGHT BEFORE. CHECK IT EARLY.


___

**[The Spring/Summer 2021 Passport Megathread can be found here]
(https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/nhe74a/passport_questions_issues_megathread_summer_2021/).**
___
#American Passport Information

## How to Apply

[All Information can be found here](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/how-apply.html).

There will be a form to fill out. Information on passport photos. What documents & IDs you'll need, etc.

##Where to Apply

[Then you'll need to see which avenue you'll need to apply at](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/how-apply/where-to-apply.html). This could be an
acceptance facility like a local USPS office, an actual Passport Agency, or via mail (for renewals).

[If you are applying Outside of the US please see this information](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/need-passport/outside-us.html).

NOTE: Many locations still have COVID protocols and do not accept same day or walk ins.


##Processing Times Within the US
As of September 2021,

[You can find the latest processing times here](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/how-apply/processing-times.html).

Normal processing is around 18 weeks.

Expedited processing is around 12 weeks. (You also have the option to expedite shipping from the facility, that is an added cost is an additional add-on to
Expedited passports.)

Life or Death/ Urgent/ Emergency Service is around 72 hours/3 business days, and you can book these appointments starting 2 weeks from your travel date. You
can only make an appointment by calling 1-877-487-2778 or TDD/TTY 1-888-874-7793.

NOTE: This timing may not include shipping time. There have been issues in the past of USPS causing delays to and from the processing facilities and those
delays are not accounted for in the official processing times.

NOTE: Some facilities may be quicker, others may take longer, the above time is the average. We have had users saying an additional week or two has sometimes
been added onto the above processing times at certain facilities so do not assume the stated processing times are accurate. Do not book travel "to the day" of
when the processing time says they could be done with processing the passport, because again, it does not include shipping times.

NOTE: It can take up to 4 weeks before your status changes to "In Process".

**Some people have gotten their recently submitted expedited passports quicker than 12 weeks BUT NOT ALL. Do not plan on being lucky, get your application in
early and expedited as needed.**
___

#Frequently Asked Questions for Applying Within the US

### What is the status of my application?

Check here: https://passportstatus.state.gov/

### They cashed my check, does that mean my passport is coming soon?

No. During covid they have been opening the submitted paperwork and cashing the check first, and then often sitting on the paperwork for up to 4-6 weeks. Them
cashing the check doesn't mean they are processing it or that everything is going well.

Once they start processing it, if they find errors, or your paperwork, IDs, etc aren't in order you may hear from them and be told how to correct the issues.

### Can I get a same day passport.

Not likely during covid since they aren't taking walk in appointments.

### My trip is in a few days and I just realized I don't have my passport/it's lost/it's expired/whatever, HELP WHAT DO I DO?

In all honesty you are pretty much SOL. [It is almost impossible to get the Urgent/Life or Death/Emergency in-person appointments]
(https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/get-fast/emergencies.html). For these urgent appointments you must call them directly via the phone numbers
on the above link. If you are trying to go that route you'll need to look at any location you can realistically get to INCLUDING flying to them.

Note that many people have faked life or death/emergency reasons so this is making it nearly impossible to get these appointments.

Otherwise you may be better off calling all your pre-booked vacation expenses and see if you have any options to postpone or refund your now-not-happening-trip.

### My trip is within the next 12 weeks and I need a passport. HELP WHAT DO I DO?

There may be extremely limited appointments for Urgent non-emergency travel, [but this will need to be done at a Passport Agency which do not accept walk ins]
(https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/get-fast/passport-agencies.html). [And you can try to apply via this link]
(http://passportappointment.travel.state.gov/).

Note that many people have faked life or death/emergency reasons so this is making it nearly impossible to get these appointments. If you are trying to go that
route you'll need to look at any location you can realistically get to INCLUDING flying to them.


### My trip is in the next 12-18 weeks, what should I do?

I wouldn't bank on Expedited processing if your trip is 12 weeks away, instead go read above for other options.

If your trip is under 13-19 weeks away, I'd recommend doing the Expedited processing WITH Expedited Shipping, and at Week 10 contact your states House of
Representatives to see if they can ensure your passport is moving along properly.

If you are traveling 13+ weeks out Expedited processing would be best.
### My trip is 19-21 weeks out.

I'd suggest normal processing BUT with expedited shipping. At week 17 if you don't see progress contact your State Representatives to see if they can ensure your
passport is moving along properly.

### My trip is more than 21 weeks out.

Normal Processing should be fine, but again, if you haven't received anything 3 weeks out from your trip follow the above advice.


### Can I switch my application from Regular Processing to Expedited?

Yes. Expedited service costs an additional $60. If you applied and have not received your passport, you may call the National Passport Information Center at 1-877-
487-2778 and receive instructions on how request to expedite your passport.

NOTE: It can take 20 days to fulfill this request.

NOTE: This is just a request, sometimes it cannot be honored. Regular Passports are processed at a different facility than Expedited ones. So they need to FIND
your application paperwork in order to be able to switch the processing.


### I submitted my passport ages ago but my status hasn't changed/its been WAY past the processing times quoted on the website.

There may be a problem. Try contacting the State Department/Passport Office, or reach out to your state State Representatives. They actually can often help with
speeding along passports and fixing issues when they get stuck in the system.

### My "Status" on the website says "Not Available"

It can take up to 4-6 weeks for your status to change to In-Progress.

### How do I find my State Representatives who can assist me?

[This link will help you for your State House Represenative](https://www.house.gov/representatives/find-your-representative) or [you can also try your Senator]
(https://www.senate.gov/senators/senators-contact.htm). Once you are in contact and have asked for help on your passport application you may be asked to fill out
a privacy form or other paperwork allowing your representative to work on your behalf. Make sure to follow up quickly to keep the ball rolling.

### Can I buy a flight that shows I'm leaving within 3 business days, get my passport, and then cancel the flight/Can I fake a family emergency?

Yes, but given that those appointments are supposed to be those with life and death emergencies and right now those appointments are VERY hard to get even if
you have a valid reason...so try not being a dick maybe?

### What about using a 3rd Party Rush/Expediting Service/Courier/Expeditor?

DO NOT USE THESE!!!

There is no magical service (other than contacting your state's house of representatives) that can get you your passport quicker than official channels. You are
instead paying a shit ton of money for someone else to do any of the above steps and faster processing isn't guaranteed or possible. As well as there are many
outright scam companies out there. I would not recommend you give them your personal information. [See the official government info here on why you should not
use these](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/get-fast/courier-and-expeditor-companies.html).

### I'm an American currently abroad and my passport recently expired. I need to quickly return to USA, can I travel on an expired passport?

[If you are overseas and your passport expired on or after January 1, 2020, you may be able to use your expired passport to return directly to the United States until
December 31, 2021. Must be a direct flight and you must have the expired passport in your possession.](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/need-
passport/outside-us.html)

## Other Questions

### Can I travel internationally by air without a passport book?

For air travel, the airline won't even let you on your first initial flight if you do not have proper documentation and visas. This is because the airline will be penalized
and fined if you are held and deported due to improper documentation/visas.

A passport card cannot be used for air travel.

### Can I travel internationally by land without a passport?

We frequently get questions on this especially for the USA/Mexico border. Officially no, you actually do need a passport. Unofficially some people have reported
getting INTO Mexico without a passport can be easier than coming BACK into the US without a passport.

### Can I travel internationally via a cruise without a passport?

We'd recommend hitting up /r/cruise as it may depend on your specific cruise. Some may not allow you on at all without a passport, others simply won't let you do
shore excursions if you don't have a passport.

### I have dual citizenship, can I travel on my other passport instead?

While USA has no exit immigration, so you don't need to show your passport to exit, you are required to enter the USA on your American passport. You cannot use
your other citizenship to get a visa to enter America on your other passport. So unless you are going to get your passport abroad at an Embassy/Consulate before
you return, get your American passport before you go.


### What is the difference between a Passport Book and a Passport Card?

Card is for Land borders and some sea ports of entry. Think Canada, Mexico, Caribbean, Bermuda. You cannot use it for air travel.

If you plan on doing any air travel within the next 10 years get the passport book.

### Since US Embassies are processing passports faster (less than 6 weeks), how can I send my application there to be processed?
You can't. Embassies only process passports for people in-person and in-country.

Also, if your travel is soon and you are headed back to the US, you'll be given a limited-use Emergency Passport that can only be used to travel back to the US.

So the "Why don't I just fly to Mexico on my soon to be expiring passport and apply at the embassy there?" idea only works if you are in Mexico for 6+ weeks and if
you have a current valid passport to even enter Mexico (or insert whatever other US Embassy you were asking about.)

### I've heard about "6 Month Validity Rule" what is it and what does it mean?

Some countries require the passport to still be valid 6 months after entry (or exit). This is to ensure you have valid documents to be able to exit the country. Some
countries do not have this requirement, some require it to be 3 months, etc.

But the easiest way to think about it is your passport actually expires 6 months early. And so its best to renew it before that time.


### I lost my passport, reported it lost, and now just found the original one, can I travel on it?

No. Once reported lost/stolen its deactivated and cannot be used for travel. You should put a hole through a corner of the passport or otherwise make it clear it
cannot be used so you don't accidentally bring it to the airport.


### I got part of my order but didn't get my old passport/new passport/passport card/my ID documents?!?

They'll come in separate shipments.


### I forgot my passport was in my maiden name/former name. Can I still use it for travel?

Your ticket must match your passport name.

Note: There may be issues if your vaccine card/info is in a different name than the passport/ticketed name, but use the COVID Megathread for that question.


### Other FAQs from the source:

https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/passport-help/faqs.html

___

# ONE KEY RULE:

If you are answering any question with timing of how long it took you to get your passport you MUST state when this happened. Anyone with "I got my passport
same day/ within 2 weeks" and the response was "This was 2019 or early" **will be temporarily banned for wasting people's time with false hope**.

People want to understand **RECENT** experiences during COVID. Not the before-times. Remember the State Department is likely 1-2 MILLION Passports behind
and not all locations have fully opened up.
I mailed my passport documents and opted for the expedited processing option. My documents were delivered to Philadelphia on 8/20/21. They arrived yesterday
via USPS Priority mail! 4.5 week turnaround and I live in Washington state.
My Passport Timeline:

Sep. 1 - Found out about travel opportunity

Sep. 3 - Submitted passport application at USPS and paid to have it expedited

Sep. 7 - Passport updated to "In Processing"

Sep. 13 - Reach out to N.C. senator Richard Burr's office. Staff was available and very helpful.

Sep. 16 - Received email from Burr's office stating the passport will issued and mailed that day.

Sep. 21 - Passport received.
I applied for my son’s passport on 9/10. Routine service( I know, big mistake) I checked the status the next week and it was received on 9/15. I called 9/22 to
expedite and filled out the emailed. I was told it was a request and could not guaranteed it would be done. We’ll today u checked my bank account and see the
transaction from the Atlanta office. Which gives me hope it will be mailed in time for my trip in December. I also had to renew mine, but I did expedite it from the
beginning. That one is processing too.
Maybe a "how to" thread/Q&A for people with dual passports? It seems like those people don't know how to use their own passports?
Hey, just poured my heart out to NPIC over email about how I found my passport today that I reported lost only a few days ago. I'd been looking for it all summer so
I could renew it and eventually decided it must have gotten lost when I moved. Turns out I still have it and it was the place I expected it to be and that I checked
several times, so very convenient to find after I'd already reported it as lost. NPIC response was canned and not at all helpful and stated that it would be the only
response to my inquiry. Anyway, it's expired anyway so I don't have any questions about whether I can use it to travel but can I use my lost and found passport as
evidence of my US citizenship still? My birth certificate is in another state and I'd like to avoid sending sensitive documents in the mail or waiting until I see my
family to renew my passport. Thanks for the advice in advance!
[deleted]
I received my 2 year old daughter’s passport back on August 4th. They had us submit her birth certificate with the application, and we haven’t received that back
yet. What is the timeframe to get back supporting documents like that? Is there someone I can contact about it?
Mailing my passport renew via express mail tomorrow 9/24 and hoping for the best. I appreciate this post and last thread for talking me out of using a passport
courier service. I called the one FEDEX uses to ask what they do differently than mailing the docs to the processing center in PA and the answer was “we check
your form ahead of time and maybe drop it off at a different PO Box”. So yeah if time is of the essence I think sending paperwork directly through USPS is still
probably the best shot for a relatively quick turnaround.
Sep. 3 - Appointment at USPS/ paid to get it expedited

Sep. 5 - passport processing

Sep. 22 passport is approved

- estimated that I will receive my passport on the 29th of Sep.

Woah that’s fast
Okay so I just applied for my passport today and I'm planning to travel 13 weeks from now, I tried to expedite it but the guy said it would be fine so he didn't add it.
Should I wait or should I call and try to get it expedited?
Expedited Passport timeline. I have a job offer starting Oct 1 in Canada. Don’t have flights booked but that was my urgent travel reason.

Mailed passport off: August 27

In processing: Sept 2

Called congressman’s office and sent privacy release form: Sept 17

Update from congressman’s office: Sept 24

Passport approved: Sept 24

Expected delivery: Sept 28


Email your congressman!!
I submitted my passport renewal application last month. They started to process it this last week and I received a letter via email saying that they need more
supporting documents for a correction to my first name on my passport. My name was incorrect on my birth certificate and I had it corrected a couple of years ago. I
put the expired passport and a CERTIFIED COPY of my birth certificate, and the application forms all in the mail to be sent to the processing place.


What I'm assuming I need to do is find more supporting documents that fit their criteria, right now I only have my baptismal certificate when I was one year old with
my correct name. Their website says I need three proofs and a DS-10 form can be used as evidence. I'll fill out a DS-10 form and have my dad fill out the lower part
of the form. Then print off the letter they sent me and an additional letter explaining that the supporting documents are: my certified copy of my birth certificate, my
baptismal certificate, and the DS form and send it all off.


Does this sound correct? Are there more hoops I need to jump through?
What address will they come from when shipped?
Travelling from Ontario Canada to Prague, Czech Republic question - Does anybody know if there will be a problem with them recognizing our Ontario Ministry of
Health Proof of Vaccination? Apparently Canada is currently not on the list of acceptable vaccine certificates, and the trip is already booked… would anybody
know? Thanks in advance
Hi everyone,

I just payed to rush my first passport for my trip to Mexico over Christmas. The lady processing my paperwork pointed out my birth certificate was signed slightly
more than one year after my date of birth. She also had me submit a smaller certificate I had called a certified abstract of birth as extra evidence. However, the date
on there is the same. I don’t have any secondary proof of citizenship like I now see is needed on the travel.state.gov website. My parents might, but it’s too late now
as my trip is in almost exactly 12 weeks.

Am I out of luck here? I haven’t booked my tickets left and I’d rather not waste any more money. :/
I mailed my passport renewal to Philadelphia via expedited processing option at end of July, and it was in progress since Early Aug. About 1.5 weeks ago I
received an email, followed by a physical mail few days later saying the check I sent was no good (I forgot to sign it, my bad). I mailed out a replacement check the
same day I got the email, and was delivered Sept 20 in the address they specified according to USPS tracking. But the check as of today (5 business days later) is
still not cashed, which worries me a bit.

I figured they were just waiting on my check to continue the process, and would cash it immediately upon receipt, esp given there is a 90 day time limit for them
receiving the information. I tried calling the National Passport information center phone number and there was no option to talk to a rep. Is it normal for requested
supporting documents to sit for several more weeks? Do they generally provide any acknowledgement that they received the supporting document?
I have an emergency travel to a non schengen eu country and the embassy website says it needs to have "one page per stamp" in my passport book but I have
another stamp on the last full page and then the very last page is the endorsements page (with no stamps). All they'll do is stamp it right, so it doesn't need a full
page like a visa. Theres plenty of room for two stamps (entry and exit).. Is this ok?
If I go to apply for my passport tomorrow, and pay to have it expedited and pay for 1/2 day shipping both ways, would that assure that I get it before a flight I have
planned for December 14th?
I sent my passport off in early June for my October honeymoon (back then, turnaround time for routine service was only 12 weeks). Status says it was received
July 21. Currently panicking about not having it in time, with the closest passport agency being 5 hours away.

We leave two days after our wedding, so an appointment 3 days before that is just not realistic. Luckily, we are flying out of Washington D.C., so I'm going to try and
get an appointment for that morning. :( F
Is there any reason not to renew a passport earlier than is strictly necessary? My passport will be six months out from expiring in September 2022, but I just got
back from an international trip and don't anticipate traveling again before the end of 2021, so I'm wondering if it might be a good time to send my passport off for
renewal now. It seems like passport renewal services are swamped at the moment, but also like that isn't going to get better anytime soon, so I might as well go for
it now?
Timeline

08/31: Passport appointment to renew passport that was issued when I was under 16. Opted for expedited

09/03: Passport received by Dept. Of State and processing

09/28: Passport approved. Estimated arrival 10/01

I did contact my Senator and Congresswoman on 09/23 as I have travel plans within the next few weeks, but I didn't get a response back from either regarding them
making any progress for my passport, so I'm uncertain if it played a role in my approval, but I just thought I would make the disclaimer.

Prayers for everyone!
Location: Houston, TX

9/15/21: Applied at the local post office for a new passport.

9/20/21: Status online updated to "In Process".

I applied for my Son's passport (6 months old) from Houston, TX on September 15th (really difficult to get appointments less than a month out in this area). The
status page updated to "In Process" status on September 20th. We're planning on traveling in December - here's to rolling the dice and hoping it comes in within 8
weeks (I'm seeing lots of expedited options arriving in 4-5 weeks so this gives me hope).
This gives me hope about getting mine on time. I'm applying tomorrow, and am leaving on a flight December 14th.
So about that consulate services call. I'm thinking of doing the same. So I was wondering if you gave them some emergency reasoning or what you might
recommend saying to help?
A University passport office said September and December are the two slowest months of the year for passport applications, so hopefully that will put some wind in
your sails. We sent in 9/17 and they received 9/23. I may call and request an expedite as well as we are considering a trip in December as well. Thanks for the info
and good luck.
Thankfully its been only a few people who've asked recently and screwed up, but I'll add an answer here since you brought it up.

#How do I use my dual passports to travel?

You must enter/exit on the passport for that country.

[So say you are American and also have Spanish Citizenship](https://www.reddit.com/r/travel/comments/ps5de2/concern_with_using_two_passports/). And you are
going to USA to Spain and back.

You may need to show both your passports, but especially your Spain passport to the check in counter at the airport. As USA Has no exit immigration you don't
need to show either passport to exit. But upon entering Spain you'll need to show your Spanish Passport. When leaving Spain, show the Spanish Passport at
immigration control, but you may need to show both, especially the US one to the airline. When you enter US, show the US passport.

But what if you are going USA to Spain then through the EU, and then to Egypt.

As you likely won't go through passport controls in the EU, no need to show either, but exiting the EU, show the Spanish Passport.

Then for Egypt when you enter/exit choose whichever passport gives you the best entry/visa requirements or length of visa given.

So really, for a country you have citizenship for, show THAT passport for entry/exit. For any other countries choose whichever nationality/passport you have that is
more powerful.

#I have Dual Citizenship, but only have a passport for one of my citizenships, can I still enter using my other passport?

Most countries require that you have a passport of your country of citizenship if you plan to enter or exit it.

So say you hold Spain and American citizenship, but right now you only have your Spanish passport. You cannot enter the US on your Spanish Passport as you'd
need a visa, which you won't get as you are a citizen (and would overstay any tourist visa you were given). While you cannot be turned away as a citizen re-entering
your country, you can have issues attempting this since you are required to enter/exit on your passport of that country.

I think you should be good. The reporting it lost just means you cannot use it for travel, but you can still use it as an expired ID.
Expedited renewals all go through the same processing center:

> National Passport Processing Center
> Post Office Box 90955
> Philadelphia, PA 19190-0955

Only Regular Passports (18+ weeks) or the 3-day Emergency Passports are processed at the regional locations.

So for Expedited at the National Passport center its around 12 weeks.
Call to expedite it. I sent my son’s routine on 9/10 and they told me it would be 18 weeks. We’re traveling in December so I called 9/22 to expedite it and received it
today 9/27. Better to do it than to worry it won’t be on time.
This is the US passport issues thread. Go back and chose the other one for covid questions.
Maybe, maybe not. Expedited, including shipping is still around 12 weeks. December 22nd is 12 weeks from tomorrow.

So you'll need to do the application asap, if you can overnight it to them, and pay for Expedited and for overnight shipping AND you may also need to contact your
state's representative for help 3 weeks out from December 14th.

So you are cutting it close. Some people have gotten theirs in less than 12 weeks lately, but definitely if its getting to the end of November, contact your
representative to see if they can push it faster.
Had a similar timeline as you for routine service as well. Sent it June, started processing 7/16 and was approved
Today (9/28)! Should be here by October 4th. So I’d expect yours to be around that. You might want to contact your representative though, that’s what I did.
I think it is best to renew it when you know you won't need it. That way you aren't in a rush or crunch time. You can bet that next Feb-September will also be busy,
because you'll have all of the spring breakers rushing to get passports, then all of the summer travel, and then holiday travel passport needs to see family. So if you
don't need it how, now probably would be best. Even though they are backed up. Because I don't forsee them getting back to normal processing times anytime
soon, or even into next year.
They only asked what country I was going to and when I was going. They didn't ask anything about if it was an emergency, business, or leisure.

I fumbled out something like "Yeah, uh, I was calling to ask about the passport inquiry thing on your website, it says to call you before submitting anything"

I barely got the words out and they were already working on it. The first guy just heard what I needed and transferred me to someone else. The lady I got
transferred to asked me how she could help, I said the same babbling response and again barely got the words out before she said, "I need you to fill out and sign
a privacy release form which I can email to you now. You can either scan and email the completed form or fax it."

We took care of the privacy release form, and then a few days later they emailed me saying the passport was being issued and mailed.
Update 9/27/21 just got delivered in the mail. Now I’m also waiting on mine. I expedited it from the beginning. It’s still processing. Mine’s a renewal so it might be
different from a minor.
Let’s say I have a valid Spanish passport and an expired USA one. Can I enter Spain with my Spanish passport and return to the US with my expired passport,
since it would fall under the current exemption (expired after January 2020)? This would also only apply until December 2021, when the exemption expires.
Another passport question that's been asked on and off, this mostly from the American women that have just married and changing their names, maybe a special
thread for them?

We don't have this issue here in Asia, we use the same name from birth.
This is great to hear! I contacted my representative a few moments ago and also went ahead and submitted an upgrade for expedited service and shipping in case
that helps.

Will keep the thread updated!
That makes sense, thanks for sharing your thoughts! I mostly wanted to get a sanity check, I appreciate you taking the time to respond :)
Thank you so much, that's very helpful!
So 9/10 application was made and new passport was received back 17 days later, with a telephoned expedite?
Only during the current exemption. Historically that hasn't been allowed, but US is currently allowing US citizens to travel back home on recently expired passports
IF they are flying directly back to the US.

Finally, one of these I can comment on!!!

I've hiked the Canyon from Rim-to-Rim 3 times (start at North rim around 6 AM and hike 24 miles to the top of South rim).

It's a good hike, but boy oh boy, it'll wear ya out!! I love it though. I'm sure I'll go again if I get the chance.
Wtf is up with that moose? Is it missing it's front legs or what?

Edit: omg It totally looks like he's got a nub but it's just behind the bush lol kinda an optical illusion.
This is so gorgeous!
That’s the south rim. Went for a hike there on Labor Day weekend. Stunningly beautiful place.
Grand Canyon is one of those rare places where photos can never do it justice. It's truly breathtaking
All beautiful pics op and amazing views alee see o like the wildlife shot
beautiful! I got to see it in winter with all the snow, super cool
Beautiful place to travel...
Amazing view!
Thank you for sharing those beautiful pictures! What camera did you use?
Looks fake (as it did when I was there).
North or South rim?
I was there just a few weeks ago. Cool spot forsure.
Those of you who have hiked down the canyon, was it worth it? We spent a day over there driving into park bus and viewing different points. But I have always
wondered if hiking down the canyon is more rewarding?
I live about an hour away from there. Love my AZ state! Go Antelopes!!
For some reason reading "Grand Canyon, Arizona, USA" is weird. Like, "Grand Canyon, Earth" seems more accurate.
That would be good reason to go back to US for holidays
Beautiful
Beautiful!! I miss that place! Can’t wait to hike to the bottom of the canyon again!
Was lucky enough to live there for 5 years. It’ll always hold a special place in my heart.
Zion is better let’s talk about it
Yes!! I went about a month ago and it was AMAZING. I was on the south rim. I really want to go back and go actually in the canyon. I've been to Arizona about 6
times before I finally went to the canyon. One of the few times in my life I've been speechless.
That’s my dream to do one day. How much did you train?
Believe that is female elk....and yeah, I had to zoom in on it to see that leg is behind bush.
This pic is very confusing!!!
Woah! Even if it has it’s leg behind a bush, what about the other? And why does it look like it’s head is screwed on? So many questions!

Edit: spelling
Bro I came to ask if it looked badly photoshopped to anyone else
Glad I wasn’t the only one!
Hahah this comment is great. I didn’t even realize the weird angle this came out. Yes it is a female elk, yes her one leg is behind the bush, yes she has a collar on
with bell!
I saw it for the first time two years ago and it was the only time I’d seen an attraction and felt that way. The canyon was so vast that it was initially difficult to look at.
An absolutely beautiful sight.
Thank you!!
Wow! I can’t imagine how cold it was then. It was pretty cold at end of Sept to hike to get this sunrise shot
South rim! Near Grand Canyon village.
I’ll let you know in 2 days headed there shortly after my stop in Bryce!
Well, to be honest, it's not as challenging as people make it out to be (in my view).

Bring a lot of salty snacks, trekking poles and probably a good sized CamelBak. You can stop as often as you need. Even at a slow pace, it'll take probably 15
hours or so.

The first 8 miles or so is a lot of downhill. Rough on the knees, so use trekking poles!!! Then it's about 8-10 miles of flat ground in the bottom of the canyon. Not
challenging at all! Just walking.

But then you hit the uphill parts... The last 5-6 miles is AWFUL. A lot of stopping LOL I stopped probably every 6-7 minutes to catch my breath.

As far as training? Not much. Just some smaller hikes with a lot of uphill.

Biggest thing to consider is this: how will you get back to your car? If you park on the North Rim, then hike to the South Rim, it's now 10 PM and your car is on the
other side (where you started). They have a shuttle but it's expensive and only runs at very specific times. You'll need a buddy to meet you and pick you up.

You can stop to sleep, if needed. I did that once. Took a 1 hour nap in the bottom before hiking out. Just get off the path and out of the way.

Also, no cell service down there so download your hiking music or podcast. But there are plenty of water points to fill up, so no need to bring a ton of water. And
there's a little restaurant at the bottom too! Expensive, but good.

It's well worth it!! A lovely experience and one you'll talk about for the rest of your life!!!
Yeah I think you're right lol.
It appears th have some sort of tracking collar or something.
Most welcome
Yep, did both of those Zion is breathtaking, top five in the country
This is such great info - thank you. Wasn’t planning on a rim to rim hike this trip. But I’d love to do it - I’m a long distance runner (but at sea level) so a couple of
months of some more intense hill training would probably be good before attempting the hike

Yeah, you gotta get to the park early if you want to see it without all the crowds. Old faithful and all the other geysers are open and going off all the time so it's better
to catch a 7:00 eruption with no crowds than those noon eruptions with packed boardwalks. Also, old faithful isn't even the best geyser in that area so make sure
you actually get out and check out the whole basin area for some even better sites.
John Dutton would be proud
I want to go here so bad!
Awesome pics op and really enjoyed the bison pic
On my bucket list.
Early morning visits are the best! You also get get to see far more wildlife earlier in the day.
Gorgeous pictures!! Def miss Yellowstone!! Been like 10 years since we’ve been there. Gotta bring the kids next :)
Yes I don’t think visitors realize how large the park actually is. there’s plenty to see here
Thanks!
Most welcome and ty

What's your impressions about Andorra?
Is that Dali sculpture relatively new? I was there in 2017 and there was a restaurant with outdoor seating right by the railing kinda where that statue is now. I don't
remember seeing that.
I'm flying into Barcelona in December, and was thinking of doing a quick stint to Andorra (partly since I have never been). Problem is, winter tires/chains are
required for cars to enter in winter.....and it doesn't seem like I will be able to get that in Barcelona.

So, I may try to take the bus in.

Any recs on someone without a car for a day there?
Great pics. Looks beautiful.
Literally my favorite place I’ve visited. I went at the beginning of fall and the colors in the Pyrenees is stunning!
Taured sure is beautiful this time of year
I went there from France in August for a day trip, and headed up into the mountains past Arinsal, amazing views from up there but I completely missed going the
Andorra La Vella and the south, and so missed out on many of the areas in your photos.
Fun fact: the President of France, currently Emmanuel Macron, is also the [co-Prince of Andorra]
(https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosuzerainet%C3%A9_d%27Andorre).
I love the first picture!
Stunning!
I went to Spain and Portugal for 10 days in 2019. Madrid, Barcelona and Lisbon. I thought I saw it all but every time i see posts from other lesser known regions of
Spain I realize I probably needed 3 weeks there lol. Great pictures
Unexpected Jojo? (first slide)
From which picture did the day 2 trip start?
Overall, I was very positively surprised! There is a lot to do in a very small place, either if you are more of an active person (there are so many hiking and cycling
opportunities) or more of a culture and history nerd (the stone churches with the amazing vistas, the quaint villages, shepherd huts...). My favourite aspect was the
architecture and especially how uniform and present it is, even the newer buildings get built in a traditional style, way more than anywhere else I have been. The
thing I didn't like was the consumerist hell of the capital with hordes of Spanyards and the French going on shopping sprees and the huge ski resorts but oh well, it's
easy to escape that.
looks like it's been sitting in that square since 2010
We drove over from Figueres in the summer of 2017. It was definitely worth it, but I would say that it was very much ski-oriented in every regard.

For us the hiking trails, architecture and food were enough to keep us entertained. I'd argue that in the winter the hiking is a no go (unless you're a keen
mountaineer!), and the dining might be limited on account of the influx of skiers.

Other than this Ordino was our favourite town, they had some good traditional food shops, and a the miniature museum was pretty cool. We didn't head into the
capital as we're not keen shoppers!
When you say "with a day there", do you mean going there and back in the same day?

The trip is around 3.5 hours with public transport (bus), so I personally wouldn't recommend making the trip there from Barcelona for such a short amount of time.
Andorra is nice, but in my opinion not worth a 7 hour return trip to spend a day there.

You could check Alsa.es for public transport options to Andorra from Barcelona
This isn't Spain.
i mean, one could easily spend 3 weeks in just barcelona alone
Thank you so much! It's on my list!
Then I must be blind, forgetful, or both haha
No, spending the night there.

It is sorta an ongoing joke that I have always missed it. I have been around the country many times over the last decade, just never bothered to go. I sorta just need
to at this point.
Oh my mistake, I always thought Andorra was a region of spain and not it’s own sovereign micro state. Still, fairly close to Barcelona I could’ve go a there as well
This is true… unless you’re 28 in America and only get 10 days of vacation time
These are the fun ones to knock off. Sorta obscure, not the easiest to get to (unless you rent a car and make a plan to go there). Same bucket as San Marino,
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, etc.
haha you're absolutely right
Fair enough but with the caveat that Andorra is very very touristy despite not being that popular among people from outside Europe
Very cool!
>knock off

Imagine thinking you can "knock off" a country
It sucks so bad… I won’t have 4 weeks of vacation until I’m 45-50
I think all of them are touristy, solely because they are city-states. But, Andorra may be more so due to skiing.
Saying that when you are referring to a place like Spain? Of course not. Andorra? It is a small city, with some mountains. Yes, it is another place that I have been
and a day is really all I feel I would need there.
And by then traveling will probably be tougher. Good luck!

One of my favorite places
Beautiful. I was just writing about St Kevin.
Beautiful place!!!
That last sentence is optional
Pff, already played Every mission in that part of the map.
It's an incredible location. And great photos.
Nothing optional about rain in Ireland! It’s a guarantee

Nice! Thanks for sharing!
Ah I miss it! Windy Point is the best spot to see the stars
Beautiful pics!! Love to visit sometime!




It's looking so much better. I was there just before they restricted access because of the damage tourists were doing to it. It's nice to see it recovered.
Has been on my bucket list for 20 years.
Seems like june was a lot better for a visit. I went there with my girlfriend in august when it was very dry and hot and was a little disappointed to see most of the
natural pools drained.
When I was there in 1995 you could swim in the pools and there was a hotel built over the old Roman baths!
You can also search Scala dei Turchi Sicily, (turks stairs) . It's similar to this beauty and was used from Arabians when they invaded Sicily
Güzel!
The world is such a wondrous place.
Amazing
I never knew it was a place. Here in Germany several kebab restaurants are named that.
I was there Oct 2020. I recommend it to everyone!

Do go when the air temps are warmer though. Barefoot in Oct was rough.
So lovely! I went December 2020 and it was deserted.
Beautiful place!!!
Wow its empty.
Was there circa 2019 and a world of difference.
It was incredible, you should go!!
You can still swim in the pools! I would’ve loved to but I didn’t have a bathing suit with me.
Wow I’ve never heard of this.. looks so incredible!!
It is!
Now you know :)
It was hotttt and super sunny when I went
Wow it must’ve been cold
It looks unreal in person
It was actually really crowded but I posted the pictures where you can’t really tell.
It’s breathtaking.i myself am not a natural formation fans. But damn. Turkey has so many that eventually natures wins you in all directions.
No hate, but I don’t think I’ve ever heard someone say “I’m not a natural formations fan” ever before in my life. Like “beaches, mountains, waterfalls, forests…
landscapes in general; I don’t trust ‘em”
We are updating the rules to reflect the current state of the subreddit, and work to cut down the level of spam, self promotion, and spoilers.

As of now, the following are in effect:

1) Any users posting spoilers without mentioning it in the post title will be banned immediately.

2) Any users posting links to their own YouTube videos more than 2 times a month will be banned.

3) Anyone continuously posting low quality content will be temporarily banned.

This is not a place to spam your videos in an effort to get likes or views, it’s a please to celebrate videogames, reminisce about old ones, get hyped for future ones,
and have a laugh. Not a cesspool of garbage content.

Thanks
:)
That's literally it. **Just don't.**

Do not use r/videogames to orchastrate a raid on a sub you dislike, do not try and raid another subreddit on behalf of r/videogames, it's pretty simple if you ask me.


From now on anyone caught to be organising or carrying out a subreddit raid on behalf of this subreddit, will receive a 7 day ban. **Don't do it.**
Sorry for the stupid question but I'm new to Reddit.
What does raiding a Reddit mean :S
You know how the gaming community gets angry at the perceived childishness of the hobby by outsiders?

It's because idiots within the community do stupid things like raids

I'd like to add that such actions often get admins involved and result in site-wide bans.
This is oppression! We should raid r/VideoGames, that'll show 'em.
This sub is so weak. Anyone up for raiding? I didn’t know what it was, now I do thanks to this sub! Thanks for spreading the raiding love!!!
I’d rather do a raid than be a member
Message me and let’s go RAID!!!!
I know this is Off Topic but this game is amazing! I really love this Most Anticipated and it's a Must-play blockbuster video-game because you'll never know what in
store and the action-packed gameplay cutscenes are soooooooo very incredibly jaw-dropping and mind-blowing. [https://youtu.be/bHJZqB9Zm8Q]
(https://youtu.be/bHJZqB9Zm8Q)
I know this is Off Topic but this game is amazing! This is the Most Anticipated and blockbuster video-game, it's a Must-play because you'll never know what is in
store and the action-packed gameplay cutscenes are soooooooo very incredibly jaw-dropping and mind-blowing.[ ]
(https://youtu.be/bHJZqB9Zm8Q)https://youtu.be/NLjxcseKRmE

This game is an extremely fun experience and I recommend it to anyone who loves video games. The Story was amazing, the controls feel so smooth, the
character development and design were amazing, they tried hard on this game. https://youtu.be/NLjxcseKRmE
Would be more effective if it was permanent. If they are young enough to raid, they're too young to be here. Squash the e-peens and let's get back to gaming :) .
LMAO I thought you were telling people not to participate in in-game raids
Mods obviously dont play WOW n ofcoz r gay. Leroy jenkinsss
Dont raid man, dont you ever raid.
This is just the tip of the iceberg. In the internet, we all are more or less anonymous, which for ssome people is a justification to forget their manners. On a related
note, toxicity is also not helpful. If we are just INSULTING EACH OTHER IN ALL CAPS, then we won't ever get to meaningfully talk about stuff. Exchanging
opinions and understanding (which does not have to include agreeing to) the opposite side's viewpoint is not possible in an uncivilised and toxic environment.

This may be the problem why r/BanVideoGames is universally hated: They are using all kinds of reasons to discredit gamers and games, even straight up lying. I
know this is a tough pill to swallow, but let do it, and dont you dare to raid. We are granted the right to express our opinions by Reddit Inc., and so are they.

They may be a bunch of Karens abusing anything they find to try to ban videogames, but they are free to do so. Besides, if they somehow got their shit together
and got polite, they would be a much bigger "threat" (much bigger does not necessarily mean significant).

Who listens to a bunch of crazy women anyway? (This is not supposed to be misogynistic. Rather, it should point out that the people who are shouting the loudest
aren't necessarily the most successful)
Does anyone remember an old Xbox game with 5 v5 or 6v6 multiplayer brawling/fighting game that would play rap music . Had a ninja that would slide and a bunch
of other characters. You could jump off high building and fight online multiplayer ?
A group of people spamming another subreddit.
So glad you asked because I was in the dark too.
Youtu.be????? Hmmmmmmmm
So, a group of people from this sub go to another sub and spam it how?
That's actually youtubes short URL. If you use the "Share" button under any [youtube.com](https://youtube.com) video and then view the URL, it's always [youtu.be]
(https://youtu.be) .
that makes me number 4
oh damn didnt know i thought that was some sort of virus link or something
So I tried playing this a few years back on the xbox one x since it supports backwards compatibility and everyone always brings this game up when talking about
classics.

I couldn’t get into it and I usually like games like this. Is it one of those ‘It was fun when I was a kid’ kind of things or something else. I must’ve put something like 20
hours into the game.
Its definitely one of those games that was special when it came out, but by todays standards, isnt so special. Mixing open world elements into an airplane combat
game was amazing around 20 years ago. That being said, I would reather see a remake than a remaster, because its potential would be sky high! lol
We let our 12 year-old play games on his iPad but we know he really wants something he can play for real. We've held off on getting a game console until now. We
have some issues with the violent games, but also know there's lots of great games that aren't like that... we just don't know what they are.

We'd like to get a game console for him for Christmas but have no idea what to get. We'd like something we can hook up to our basement TV, and get a couple
games that he might like. We don't want to ask him because we'll hear of nothing else for the next 3 months. Plus it'd be a cool surprise because he'd never think
we'd buy him this, but he's an awesome kid and works hard so he deserves it.

Any suggestions on what system to get and maybe some game suggestions? On his iPad he likes Minecraft, games with dragons, and racing games. We just want
to avoid the kill everything and paint the walls with blood kind of games. Also, our 10 year-old loves horses so any sweet games with horses? Thank you for any
recommendations.

~Very clueless middle aged couple

EDIT: Thanks for all the suggestions!! What a great community.
Nintendo Switch 100%
It is the most "family friendly" console, and Nintendo games are generally geared towards a younger audience, even though the older audience enjoys them
thoroughly too! Your son will definitely enjoy playing Breath of the Wild.
Switch is a no brainer…but realistically whatever his friends are playing.
Xbox One purely because of Gamepass. 10 bucks a month and over 200 games on the service I will say though that if you want to be able to curate his experience
to age appropriate games I believe there are parental control options but not 100%. But that’s my suggestion, great start for a first console to sample what’s out
there.
An XBox Series S and game pass would be my way to go for a budding gamer. Until he knows what kind of games end up appealing to him he has a huge library
to keep him busy and out of your hair.

Also, what do his friends have? The social component ends up being a consideration too. Where do his friends play? You might already know or be able to pick that
up, and I would give that angle some weight in your decision making.
Nintendo switch, but if you do, make sure you get a pro controller. The joycons (the controllers that come with the console) break after a year or two

Sounds like a perfect Nintendo Switch candidate! Although, don't be naive, there are adult games on every platform. With games being available through the digital
marketplace, the gatekeepers that are parents have as tough as any job to control the content their kids have access to. I recommend looking into parental account
controls to make sure your money is safe and your kid's experience is safer.
The Switch is relatively cheap compared to other consoles and as far as child/teen friendly games go has probably the best selection of them all.
My son who is also 12 has a ps (ps5) and he loves it games like Spider-Man so I guess PS4 or 5
Xbox series x or s. You can get a ton of free games, plus 4 games a month with gold. If you get game pass ultimate, you have access to 100+ more games. All of
the Xbox consoles also have customizable parental controls, so you don’t have to worry about your son playing games you don’t approve of. As far as game
suggestions, I highly recommend the Forza Horizon series. All of them are exceptional games and not at all offensive. Horizon 4 is a great choice, but Horizon 5 will
be released this November and will be the coolest new game. I hope that helps. If you have any more questions, let me know.
Ps5, he’ll love you for it
my first thought is a nintendo switch just because it is the most “kid friendly” of the consoles. but i would also consider trying to find out the games he’s interested in
or that his friends play, that way in case they are exclusive to one console you can go with that.

if you want to avoid asking him any questions to keep it as secret as possible. i would say a switch is a safe choice. it’s more likely to have games geared towards a
younger audience, though older players love it too, and it would be something you could play in with him very easily since it is made very much “family” oriented
He'll probably outgrow the Nintendo Switch if you get that. Once he hits puberty I don't think he'd be that into colorful platformers and party games. Not disrespecting
the Switch, it's just not for everyone. I'd say get him an Xbox One S. You can get them pretty cheap these days and you'll have a way bigger variety of games to
choose from. Plenty of racing games and games with dragons and I think he won't outgrow it anytime soon. It's technically not meant for mobile gaming, but he can
still play remotely on his tablet or phone through the Xbox app.

Edit: Oh and you can activate parental controls.
Nintendo Switch or Xbox 360
Ouya. Greatest console ever.
Sega Genesis. The whole unit is rather cheap, you could get a Sega 3 for cheaper. Lion King, Pitfall Mayan Adventure, Streets of Rage 2, and Sword of Vermillion
are some of many that are a good time.
Get a handheld called powkiddy v90. It's $40. You add all of the games yourself takes like an hour and you can play all games from original nes and SNES
Gameboy and Gameboy color and Gameboy advance and Sega Genesis and some ps1 games. Or you can leave it as is and it has 3000 games from 15 different
systems. Since there the classics like Mario and donkey Kong no violence. It does have mortal Kombat though. But you can delete them from the SD. Anyway have
fun.
Well the Nintendo switch is a really great console to start on for kids. It has can hook up to the TV or be handheld for if you are going somewhere and you want to
bring it. As for games you can get minecraft for it, there are several racing games but for kids Mario kart is probably the most fun, spirit lucky big adventure is a
horse game. I have never played it but looks like it would be good for kids that like horses, the best child friendly dragon game i can think of would be the game
based on the movie how to train your dragon game called dragons: dawn of new riders. Hopefully this helps!
I’d say either switch or an xbox series s. Id say probably not an xbox one since its sort of being phased out and id imagine it wont be long until he’d want to
upgrade. I love the switch though but xbox has tons of games through gamepass so if he has adhd like me the xbox might be the best bet!
.... I’ll hop in with a different suggestion. A cheap gaming pc. You can get Xbox pass, ps game pass and have access to Steam where you can buy just about any
game you can think of. It’s amazing for Minecraft as you have access to thousands of mods. Plus it’s a good investment for school.
You should get him an N64 and SM64, MK64, Banjo-Kazooie, and Banjo-Tooie. Tons of hours of fun in those 4 games alone
Buy your child a SNES and you can forget about dlc, internet issues and battery depletion. You have full complete games, no user ranting and clean honest hours
of fun.
It really depends on what kind of parents you are.

If your strictly trying to keep in the family friendly zone, then the Nintendo switch is definitely the best choice.

This also doesn’t mean it’s the only choice, most of the games that are on the switch (other than Nintendo brand games) are also found on PlayStation and Xbox,
it’s just that PS and Xbox also have games for mature audiences meaning you will have to pay closer attention to what he’s doing. There are also parental control
options limiting what a user can do/ play on PlayStation and I’m sure that option is on Xbox and even the switch too.


Now if you don’t care / are willing to eventually let him play mature games, a PlayStation or Xbox would probably be the way to go because they have more games
to chose from and are able to run bigger games. Personally, If I were you I’d get him a Xbox. And I say this as a lifetime PlayStation user so I should have bias
towards getting PS over Xbox.

So why do I say Xbox instead of PlayStation? Well they are both very good consoles and each provide very good service, BUT, if your getting a console your gonna
have to get games too, and buying games obviously isn’t cheap.

PlayStation provides two paid services: one is PlayStation Plus, which costs $60 for a year and allows to play games online, and gives 2-3 games away for free
each month that you can play as long as your subscription is active. The problem with this is you don’t know what the games will be until the beginning of the
month. Some months have better games than others.

The second service PlayStation provides is PlayStation Now: This has a large catalog of selected games that you can stream. It has some PlayStation 2, 3, 4, and 5
games on it. For older games belonging to Ps 2 and 3 systems, streaming is the only option. It works the same way you would stream a show on Netflix, so you
need good internet if you want to stream. For ps4 and ps5 games you have the option to download the games. This service is also $60 a year.

Now from what I understand, Xbox works in the same sense. I could be wrong and both services could both be combined under one service but Im not sure. What I
do know, however, is Xbox’s version of PlayStation Now offers a better selection of games. Im not saying that Ps Now is a bad deal, It’s actually a really good deal,
but Xbox does have better games at I think the same price.

All systems are very good though, and people do fight over “which system is the best” a lot, but you have to keep in mind that Nintendo (switch), Microsoft (Xbox),
and Sony (PlayStation), are all very big and trustworthy companies that provide good and reliable hardware.

At the end of the day, the best choice is probably whatever system the majority of his friends have assuming his friends play video games.
I am a PlayStation fanboy, but I just bought my first xBox (series S) and I LOVE it!! My kids do too!! (ages 8 and 4).

The Game Pass thingy or whatever it's called, is great because I can try all different kinds of games.

I have been telling everyone to get an xBox series S recently because the value is unbelievable.
a ps4 with spiderman, minecraft, and a racing game of your choice
at the moment it may be expensive but i know from personal experience that a ps4 is a great console for kids ages 9-17 and spiderman is a little violent but its
fantasy violence like you know, spiderman.
also you are very respectable parents!
Great, thank you for the suggestion.
Came here to say this too and to add that the portability of the basic switch would probably be a plus too if your kid likes playing on the iPad since it can be played
on the go or connected to the TV.

As for games, in addition to BotW (of course,) I'd suggest Super Mario Odyssey, Pokemon Sword or Shield, Mario Kart, The Spyro Remastered Trilogy, Luigi's
Mansion 3 and Animal Crossing. I'd even suggest their online service because $20 a year for a library of classic games really isn't that bad.

EDIT: I just saw the part about liking dragons. DEFINITELY get Spyro then. You play as a purple dragon that normally has to rescue other dragons.
Came her to say switch. Also, lots of switch games are great for the family. I still play Mario party with my family and it’s a blast!
Oh I hadn't considered what his friends are playing. I'll have to find out. Thanks.
They have parental controls. I was gonna post Xbox One but I feel like if he does want to play something online. Even Minecraft he’s going to be met with a lot of
hostility. But that just Xbox game chat.
Probably gonna last a couple months to a couple years if you're lucky. Mine lasted a couple months.
Good advise, thank you.
Awesome, thank you.
Great, thank you!
Dude the 360 is multiple generations outdated


I still love mine but no 12 year old is going to be excited over something that came out before they did
Ah, a person of culture!
The best dragon game for kids is definitely Spyro!
Great suggestions, thank you.
Awesome, thank you. And we're hoping to get something that will last a while, so we know it won't be cheep. :)
also do some research of your own there are plenty of family friendly and party games for all sorts of consoles.
You are welcome! I'm excited for your son; he is gonna love you for this.
I second it all!
For sure. I know it can’t be easy navigating the water’s of gaming uninitiated, or a gamer your self. I tried to just stick to your bullet points, if you have other
questions or need some clarification, I will help to the best of my ability.


[View Poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/px8u94)
I don't even have something from there
I'm a big fan of Cauldron.com, but if you're not in the states you might have to settle for BroomBox
PC. Its free
Pc because its free
Which*
Good question wanna know
I’d choose psn but this isn’t 2007 with PS3’s free online
Xbox live only if you count the game pass you get stuff for both PC and Xbox great for if you want to try something new with your buddies
then choose other

More like Goreframe, am I right guys?


ᴼᵏ, ᴵ'ˡˡ ᵍᵒ.
HOW DOES THAT HAPPEN
both both is good
Batman Beyond, but only if they bring back the original voice cast
I prefer the arkham games, but the visuals for both of them would be amazing.
I think a new Batman game would be very interesting.
neither, a Super-man or Green lantern game would be nice.
Batman game!!!
I want a Batman beyond game made by insomniac and a Spider-Man 2099 game made by rocksteady.


[View Poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/pxjbp4)
Surely there's nothing to consider here? Videogames are most certainly art, often transcendent and, occasionally, masterpieces.

why did i think this was real life for a second, literally couldnt be further from reality
Can run 2077


Decides to record diagonally on Snapchat instead of screen capture
The cat is everywhere in the game, also in game discussions make it out to potentially be a spirit, because of how old it potentially might be and the fact cats are
supposedly extinct by 2077 in Cyberpunk.
This game is still broken
This game was a huge letdown
You’re a buzzkill.

You're bad at filming clips
I’m a gamer not a movie producer
